 Data science is a multi-disciplinary field that uses scientific methods, processes, algorithms and systems to extract knowledge and insights from structured and unstructured data. Data science is the same concept as data mining and big data: "use the most powerful hardware, the most powerful programming systems, and the most efficient algorithms to solve problems". 
 Data science is a "concept to unify statistics, data analysis, machine learning and their related methods" in order to "understand and analyze actual phenomena" with data. It employs techniques and theories drawn from many fields within the context of mathematics, statistics, information science, and computer science. Turing award winner Jim Gray imagined data science as a "fourth paradigm" of science (empirical, theoretical, computational and now data-driven) and asserted that "everything about science is changing because of the impact of information technology" and the data deluge. 
 In 2012, when Harvard Business Review called it "The Sexiest Job of the 21st Century", the term "data science" became a buzzword. It is now often used interchangeably with earlier concepts like business analytics, business intelligence, predictive modeling, and statistics. Even the suggestion that data science is sexy was paraphrasing Hans Rosling, featured in a 2011 BBC documentary with the quote, "Statistics is now the sexiest subject around." Nate Silver referred to data science as a sexed up term for statistics.[10 In many cases, earlier approaches and solutions are now simply rebranded as "data science" to be more attractive, which can cause the term to become "dilute[d beyond usefulness." While many university programs now offer a data science degree, there exists no consensus on a definition or suitable curriculum contents. To its discredit, however, many data-science and big-data projects fail to deliver useful results, often as a result of poor management and utilization of resources. 
 The term "data science" has appeared in various contexts over the past thirty years but did not become an established term until recently. In an early usage, it was used as a substitute for computer science by Peter Naur in 1960. Naur later introduced the term "datalogy". In 1974, Naur published Concise Survey of Computer Methods, which freely used the term data science in its survey of the contemporary data processing methods that are used in a wide range of applications. 
 In 1996, members of the International Federation of Classification Societies (IFCS) met in Kobe for their biennial conference. Here, for the first time, the term data science is included in the title of the conference ("Data Science, classification, and related methods"), after the term was introduced in a roundtable discussion by Chikio Hayashi. 
 In November 1997, C.F. Jeff Wu gave the inaugural lecture entitled "Statistics = Data Science?" for his appointment to the H. C. Carver Professorship at the University of Michigan. In this lecture, he characterized statistical work as a trilogy of data collection, data modeling and analysis, and decision making. In his conclusion, he initiated the modern, non-computer science, usage of the term "data science" and advocated that statistics be renamed data science and statisticians data scientists. Later, he presented his lecture entitled "Statistics = Data Science?" as the first of his 1998 P.C. Mahalanobis Memorial Lectures.[20 These lectures honor Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, an Indian scientist and statistician and founder of the Indian Statistical Institute. 
 In 2001, William S. Cleveland introduced data science as an independent discipline, extending the field of statistics to incorporate "advances in computing with data" in his article "Data Science: An Action Plan for Expanding the Technical Areas of the Field of Statistics," which was published in Volume 69, No. 1, of the April 2001 edition of the International Statistical Review / Revue Internationale de Statistique. In his report, Cleveland establishes six technical areas which he believed to encompass the field of data science: multidisciplinary investigations, models and methods for data, computing with data, pedagogy, tool evaluation, and theory. 
 In April 2002, the International Council for Science (ICSU): Committee on Data for Science and Technology (CODATA) started the Data Science Journal, a publication focused on issues such as the description of data systems, their publication on the internet, applications and legal issues. Shortly thereafter, in January 2003, Columbia University began publishing The Journal of Data Science, which provided a platform for all data workers to present their views and exchange ideas. The journal was largely devoted to the application of statistical methods and quantitative research. In 2005, The National Science Board published "Long-lived Digital Data Collections: Enabling Research and Education in the 21st Century" defining data scientists as "the information and computer scientists, database and software and programmers, disciplinary experts, curators and expert annotators, librarians, archivists, and others, who are crucial to the successful management of a digital data collection" whose primary activity is to "conduct creative inquiry and analysis." 
 Around 2007,[citation needed Turing award winner Jim Gray envisioned "data-driven science" as a "fourth paradigm" of science that uses the computational analysis of large data as primary scientific method and "to have a world in which all of the science literature is online, all of the science data is online, and they interoperate with each other." 
 In the 2012 Harvard Business Review article "Data Scientist: The Sexiest Job of the 21st Century", DJ Patil claims to have coined this term in 2008 with Jeff Hammerbacher to define their jobs at LinkedIn and Facebook, respectively. He asserts that a data scientist is "a new breed", and that a "shortage of data scientists is becoming a serious constraint in some sectors", but describes a much more business-oriented role. 
 In 2013, the IEEE Task Force on Data Science and Advanced Analytics was launched. In 2013, the first "European Conference on Data Analysis (ECDA)" was organised in Luxembourg, establishing the European Association for Data Science (EuADS). The first international conference: IEEE International Conference on Data Science and Advanced Analytics was launched in 2014. In 2014, General Assembly launched student-paid bootcamp and The Data Incubator launched a competitive free data science fellowship.[30 In 2014, the American Statistical Association section on Statistical Learning and Data Mining renamed its journal to "Statistical Analysis and Data Mining: The ASA Data Science Journal" and in 2016 changed its section name to "Statistical Learning and Data Science". In 2015, the International Journal on Data Science and Analytics was launched by Springer to publish original work on data science and big data analytics. In September 2015 the Gesellschaft für Klassifikation (GfKl) added to the name of the Society "Data Science Society" at the third ECDA conference at the University of Essex, Colchester, UK. 
 "Data science" has recently become a popular term among business executives. However, many critical academics and journalists see no distinction between data science and statistics, whereas others consider it largely a popular term for "data mining" and "big data". Writing in Forbes, Gil Press argues that data science is a buzzword without a clear definition and has simply replaced “business analytics” in contexts such as graduate degree programs. In the question-and-answer section of his keynote address at the Joint Statistical Meetings of American Statistical Association, noted applied statistician Nate Silver said, “I think data-scientist is a sexed up term for a statistician....Statistics is a branch of science. Data scientist is slightly redundant in some way and people shouldn’t berate the term statistician.”[10 Similarly, in business sector, multiple researchers and analysts state that data scientists alone are far from being sufficient in granting companies a real competitive advantage and consider data scientists as only one of the four greater job families companies require to leverage big data effectively, namely: data analysts, data scientists, big data developers and big data engineers. 
 On the other hand, responses to criticism are as numerous. In a 2014 Wall Street Journal article, Irving Wladawsky-Berger compares the data science enthusiasm with the dawn of computer science. He argues data science, like any other interdisciplinary field, employs methodologies and practices from across the academia and industry, but then it will morph them into a new discipline. He brings to attention the sharp criticisms computer science, now a well respected academic discipline, had to once face. Likewise, NYU Stern's Vasant Dhar, as do many other academic proponents of data science, argues more specifically in December 2013 that data science is different from the existing practice of data analysis across all disciplines, which focuses only on explaining data sets. Data science seeks actionable and consistent pattern for predictive uses. This practical engineering goal takes data science beyond traditional analytics. Now the data in those disciplines and applied fields that lacked solid theories, like health science and social science, could be sought and utilized to generate powerful predictive models. 
 In an effort similar to Dhar's, Stanford professor David Donoho, in September 2015, takes the proposition further by rejecting three simplistic and misleading definitions of data science in lieu of criticisms. First, for Donoho, data science does not equate to big data, in that the size of the data set is not a criterion to distinguish data science and statistics. Second, data science is not defined by the computing skills of sorting big data sets, in that these skills are already generally used for analyses across all disciplines. Third, data science is a heavily applied field where academic programs right now do not sufficiently prepare data scientists for the jobs, in that many graduate programs misleadingly advertise their analytics and statistics training as the essence of a data science program. As a statistician, Donoho, following many in his field, champions the broadening of learning scope in the form of data science, like John Chambers who urges statisticians to adopt an inclusive concept of learning from data, or like William Cleveland who urges to prioritize extracting from data applicable predictive tools over explanatory theories. Together, these statisticians envision an increasingly inclusive applied field that grows out of traditional statistics and beyond. 
 For the future of data science, Donoho projects an ever-growing environment for open science where data sets used for academic publications are accessible to all researchers. US National Institute of Health has already announced plans to enhance reproducibility and transparency of research data.[40 Other big journals are likewise following suit. This way, the future of data science not only exceeds the boundary of statistical theories in scale and methodology, but data science will revolutionize current academia and research paradigms. As Donoho concludes, "the scope and impact of data science will continue to expand enormously in coming decades as scientific data and data about science itself become ubiquitously available." 
 ^ Naur, Peter (1 July 1966). "The science of datalogy". Communications of the ACM. 9 (7): 485. doi:10.1145/365719.366510. 
 ^ International Council for Science: Committee on Data for Science and Technology. (2012, April). CODATA, The Committee on Data for Science and Technology. Retrieved from International Council for Science : Committee on Data for Science and Technology: http://www.codata.org/ 
 ^ Data Science Journal. (2002, April). Contents of Volume 1, Issue 1, April 2002. Retrieved from Japan Science and Technology Information Aggregator, Electronic: http://www.jstage.jst.go.jp/browse/dsj/1/0/_contents 
 ^ The Journal of Data Science. (2003, January). Contents of Volume 1, Issue 1, January 2003. Retrieved from http://www.jds-online.com/v1-1 
 ^ Miller, Steven (2014-04-10). "Collaborative Approaches Needed to Close the Big Data Skills Gap". Journal of Organization Design. 3 (1): 26–30. doi:10.7146/jod.9823. ISSN 2245-408X. 
 ^ De Mauro, Andrea; Greco, Marco; Grimaldi, Michele; Ritala, Paavo (2018). "Human resources for Big Data professions: A systematic classification of job roles and required skill sets". Information Processing & Management. 54 (5): 807–817. doi:10.1016/j.ipm.2017.05.004. 
 ^ a b c d e f g h Donoho, David (September 2015). "50 Years of Data Science" (PDF). Based on a Talk at Tukey Centennial Workshop, Princeton NJ Sept 18 2015. 
 ^ Barlow, Mike (2013). The Culture of Big Data. O'Reilly Media, Inc. 
 ^ Chambers, John M. (1993-12-01). "Greater or lesser statistics: a choice for future research". Statistics and Computing. 3 (4): 182–184. doi:10.1007/BF00141776. ISSN 0960-3174. 
 Deep learning models are vaguely inspired by information processing and communication patterns in biological nervous systems yet have various differences from the structural and functional properties of biological brains (especially human brains), which make them incompatible with neuroscience evidences. 
 use a cascade of multiple layers of nonlinear processing units for feature extraction and transformation. Each successive layer uses the output from the previous layer as input. 
 learn in supervised (e.g., classification) and/or unsupervised (e.g., pattern analysis) manners. 
 learn multiple levels of representations that correspond to different levels of abstraction; the levels form a hierarchy of concepts. 
 In deep learning, each level learns to transform its input data into a slightly more abstract and composite representation. In an image recognition application, the raw input may be a matrix of pixels; the first representational layer may abstract the pixels and encode edges; the second layer may compose and encode arrangements of edges; the third layer may encode a nose and eyes; and the fourth layer may recognize that the image contains a face. Importantly, a deep learning process can learn which features to optimally place in which level on its own. (Of course, this does not completely obviate the need for hand-tuning; for example, varying numbers of layers and layer sizes can provide different degrees of abstraction.) 
 The "deep" in "deep learning" refers to the number of layers through which the data is transformed. More precisely, deep learning systems have a substantial credit assignment path (CAP) depth. The CAP is the chain of transformations from input to output. CAPs describe potentially causal connections between input and output. For a feedforward neural network, the depth of the CAPs is that of the network and is the number of hidden layers plus one (as the output layer is also parameterized). For recurrent neural networks, in which a signal may propagate through a layer more than once, the CAP depth is potentially unlimited. No universally agreed upon threshold of depth divides shallow learning from deep learning, but most researchers agree that deep learning involves CAP depth > 2. CAP of depth 2 has been shown to be a universal approximator in the sense that it can emulate any function.[citation needed Beyond that more layers do not add to the function approximator ability of the network. Deep models (CAP > 2) are able to extract better features than shallow models and hence, extra layers help in learning features. 
 For supervised learning tasks, deep learning methods obviate feature engineering, by translating the data into compact intermediate representations akin to principal components, and derive layered structures that remove redundancy in representation. 
 Deep learning algorithms can be applied to unsupervised learning tasks. This is an important benefit because unlabeled data are more abundant than labeled data. Examples of deep structures that can be trained in an unsupervised manner are neural history compressors and deep belief networks. 
 The universal approximation theorem for deep neural networks concerns the capacity of networks with bounded width but the depth is allowed to grow. Lu et al.[20 proved that if the width of a deep neural network with ReLU activation is strictly larger than the input dimension, then the network can approximate any Lebesgue integrable function; If the width is smaller or equal to the input dimension, then deep neural network is not a universal approximator. 
 The term Deep Learning was introduced to the machine learning community by Rina Dechter in 1986, and to artificial neural networks by Igor Aizenberg and colleagues in 2000, in the context of Boolean threshold neurons. 
 The first general, working learning algorithm for supervised, deep, feedforward, multilayer perceptrons was published by Alexey Ivakhnenko and Lapa in 1965. A 1971 paper described a deep network with 8 layers trained by the group method of data handling algorithm. 
 Other deep learning working architectures, specifically those built for computer vision, began with the Neocognitron introduced by Kunihiko Fukushima in 1980.[30 In 1989, Yann LeCun et al. applied the standard backpropagation algorithm, which had been around as the reverse mode of automatic differentiation since 1970, to a deep neural network with the purpose of recognizing handwritten ZIP codes on mail. While the algorithm worked, training required 3 days. 
 By 1991 such systems were used for recognizing isolated 2-D hand-written digits, while recognizing 3-D objects was done by matching 2-D images with a handcrafted 3-D object model. Weng et al. suggested that a human brain does not use a monolithic 3-D object model and in 1992 they published Cresceptron, a method for performing 3-D object recognition in cluttered scenes. Because it directly used natural images, Cresceptron started the beginning of general-purpose visual learning for natural 3D worlds. Cresceptron is a cascade of layers similar to Neocognitron. But while Neocognitron required a human programmer to hand-merge features, Cresceptron learned an open number of features in each layer without supervision, where each feature is represented by a convolution kernel. Cresceptron segmented each learned object from a cluttered scene through back-analysis through the network. Max pooling, now often adopted by deep neural networks (e.g. ImageNet tests), was first used in Cresceptron to reduce the position resolution by a factor of (2x2) to 1 through the cascade for better generalization. 
 In 1994, André de Carvalho, together with Mike Fairhurst and David Bisset, published experimental results of a multi-layer boolean neural network, also known as a weightless neural network, composed of a 3-layers self-organising feature extraction neural network module (SOFT) followed by a multi-layer classification neural network module (GSN), which were independently trained. Each layer in the feature extraction module extracted features with growing complexity regarding the previous layer. 
 Simpler models that use task-specific handcrafted features such as Gabor filters and support vector machines (SVMs) were a popular choice in the 1990s and 2000s, because of artificial neural network's (ANN) computational cost and a lack of understanding of how the brain wires its biological networks. 
 Both shallow and deep learning (e.g., recurrent nets) of ANNs have been explored for many years. These methods never outperformed non-uniform internal-handcrafting Gaussian mixture model/Hidden Markov model (GMM-HMM) technology based on generative models of speech trained discriminatively. Key difficulties have been analyzed, including gradient diminishing and weak temporal correlation structure in neural predictive models. Additional difficulties were the lack of training data and limited computing power. 
 Most speech recognition researchers moved away from neural nets to pursue generative modeling. An exception was at SRI International in the late 1990s. Funded by the US government's NSA and DARPA, SRI studied deep neural networks in speech and speaker recognition. Heck's speaker recognition team achieved the first significant success with deep neural networks in speech processing in the 1998 National Institute of Standards and Technology Speaker Recognition evaluation. While SRI experienced success with deep neural networks in speaker recognition, they were unsuccessful in demonstrating similar success in speech recognition. The principle of elevating "raw" features over hand-crafted optimization was first explored successfully in the architecture of deep autoencoder on the "raw" spectrogram or linear filter-bank features in the late 1990s, showing its superiority over the Mel-Cepstral features that contain stages of fixed transformation from spectrograms. The raw features of speech, waveforms, later produced excellent larger-scale results.[50 
 Many aspects of speech recognition were taken over by a deep learning method called long short-term memory (LSTM), a recurrent neural network published by Hochreiter and Schmidhuber in 1997. LSTM RNNs avoid the vanishing gradient problem and can learn "Very Deep Learning" tasks that require memories of events that happened thousands of discrete time steps before, which is important for speech. In 2003, LSTM started to become competitive with traditional speech recognizers on certain tasks. Later it was combined with connectionist temporal classification (CTC) in stacks of LSTM RNNs. In 2015, Google's speech recognition reportedly experienced a dramatic performance jump of 49% through CTC-trained LSTM, which they made available through Google Voice Search. 
 The impact of deep learning in industry began in the early 2000s, when CNNs already processed an estimated 10% to 20% of all the checks written in the US, according to Yann LeCun. Industrial applications of deep learning to large-scale speech recognition started around 2010. 
 The 2009 NIPS Workshop on Deep Learning for Speech Recognition was motivated by the limitations of deep generative models of speech, and the possibility that given more capable hardware and large-scale data sets that deep neural nets (DNN) might become practical. It was believed that pre-training DNNs using generative models of deep belief nets (DBN) would overcome the main difficulties of neural nets.[70 However, it was discovered that replacing pre-training with large amounts of training data for straightforward backpropagation when using DNNs with large, context-dependent output layers produced error rates dramatically lower than then-state-of-the-art Gaussian mixture model (GMM)/Hidden Markov Model (HMM) and also than more-advanced generative model-based systems.[60 The nature of the recognition errors produced by the two types of systems was characteristically different, offering technical insights into how to integrate deep learning into the existing highly efficient, run-time speech decoding system deployed by all major speech recognition systems.[10 Analysis around 2009-2010, contrasted the GMM (and other generative speech models) vs. DNN models, stimulated early industrial investment in deep learning for speech recognition, eventually leading to pervasive and dominant use in that industry. That analysis was done with comparable performance (less than 1.5% in error rate) between discriminative DNNs and generative models.[60[70 
 In 2010, researchers extended deep learning from TIMIT to large vocabulary speech recognition, by adopting large output layers of the DNN based on context-dependent HMM states constructed by decision trees. 
 Advances in hardware enabled the renewed interest. In 2009, Nvidia was involved in what was called the “big bang” of deep learning, “as deep-learning neural networks were trained with Nvidia graphics processing units (GPUs).” That year, Google Brain used Nvidia GPUs to create capable DNNs. While there, Andrew Ng determined that GPUs could increase the speed of deep-learning systems by about 100 times.[80 In particular, GPUs are well-suited for the matrix/vector math involved in machine learning. GPUs speed up training algorithms by orders of magnitude, reducing running times from weeks to days. Specialized hardware and algorithm optimizations can be used for efficient processing. 
 In 2012, a team led by Dahl won the "Merck Molecular Activity Challenge" using multi-task deep neural networks to predict the biomolecular target of one drug. In 2014, Hochreiter's group used deep learning to detect off-target and toxic effects of environmental chemicals in nutrients, household products and drugs and won the "Tox21 Data Challenge" of NIH, FDA and NCATS.[90 
 Significant additional impacts in image or object recognition were felt from 2011 to 2012. Although CNNs trained by backpropagation had been around for decades, and GPU implementations of NNs for years, including CNNs, fast implementations of CNNs with max-pooling on GPUs in the style of Ciresan and colleagues were needed to progress on computer vision. In 2011, this approach achieved for the first time superhuman performance in a visual pattern recognition contest. Also in 2011, it won the ICDAR Chinese handwriting contest, and in May 2012, it won the ISBI image segmentation contest. Until 2011, CNNs did not play a major role at computer vision conferences, but in June 2012, a paper by Ciresan et al. at the leading conference CVPR showed how max-pooling CNNs on GPU can dramatically improve many vision benchmark records. In October 2012, a similar system by Krizhevsky et al. won the large-scale ImageNet competition by a significant margin over shallow machine learning methods. In November 2012, Ciresan et al.'s system also won the ICPR contest on analysis of large medical images for cancer detection, and in the following year also the MICCAI Grand Challenge on the same topic. In 2013 and 2014, the error rate on the ImageNet task using deep learning was further reduced, following a similar trend in large-scale speech recognition. The Wolfram Image Identification project publicized these improvements. 
 Image classification was then extended to the more challenging task of generating descriptions (captions) for images, often as a combination of CNNs and LSTMs. 
 Some researchers assess that the October 2012 ImageNet victory anchored the start of a "deep learning revolution" that has transformed the AI industry. 
 In March 2019, Yoshua Bengio, Geoffrey Hinton and Yann LeCun were awarded the Turing Award for conceptual and engineering breakthroughs that have made deep neural networks a critical component of computing. 
 Artificial neural networks (ANNs) or connectionist systems are computing systems inspired by the biological neural networks that constitute animal brains. Such systems learn (progressively improve their ability) to do tasks by considering examples, generally without task-specific programming. For example, in image recognition, they might learn to identify images that contain cats by analyzing example images that have been manually labeled as "cat" or "no cat" and using the analytic results to identify cats in other images. They have found most use in applications difficult to express with a traditional computer algorithm using rule-based programming. 
 An ANN is based on a collection of connected units called artificial neurons, (analogous to biological neurons in a biological brain). Each connection (synapse) between neurons can transmit a signal to another neuron. The receiving (postsynaptic) neuron can process the signal(s) and then signal downstream neurons connected to it. Neurons may have state, generally represented by real numbers, typically between 0 and 1. Neurons and synapses may also have a weight that varies as learning proceeds, which can increase or decrease the strength of the signal that it sends downstream. 
 Typically, neurons are organized in layers. Different layers may perform different kinds of transformations on their inputs. Signals travel from the first (input), to the last (output) layer, possibly after traversing the layers multiple times. 
 The original goal of the neural network approach was to solve problems in the same way that a human brain would. Over time, attention focused on matching specific mental abilities, leading to deviations from biology such as backpropagation, or passing information in the reverse direction and adjusting the network to reflect that information. 
 As of 2017, neural networks typically have a few thousand to a few million units and millions of connections. Despite this number being several order of magnitude less than the number of neurons on a human brain, these networks can perform many tasks at a level beyond that of humans (e.g., recognizing faces, playing "Go"[100 ). 
 A deep neural network (DNN) is an artificial neural network (ANN) with multiple layers between the input and output layers. The DNN finds the correct mathematical manipulation to turn the input into the output, whether it be a linear relationship or a non-linear relationship. The network moves through the layers calculating the probability of each output. For example, a DNN that is trained to recognize dog breeds will go over the given image and calculate the probability that the dog in the image is a certain breed. The user can review the results and select which probabilities the network should display (above a certain threshold, etc.) and return the proposed label. Each mathematical manipulation as such is considered a layer, and complex DNN have many layers, hence the name "deep" networks. The goal is that eventually, the network will be trained to decompose an image into features, identify trends that exist across all samples and classify new images by their similarities without requiring human input.[10 
 DNNs can model complex non-linear relationships. DNN architectures generate compositional models where the object is expressed as a layered composition of primitives.[10 The extra layers enable composition of features from lower layers, potentially modeling complex data with fewer units than a similarly performing shallow network. 
 Deep architectures include many variants of a few basic approaches. Each architecture has found success in specific domains. It is not always possible to compare the performance of multiple architectures, unless they have been evaluated on the same data sets. 
 DNNs are typically feedforward networks in which data flows from the input layer to the output layer without looping back. At first, the DNN creates a map of virtual neurons and assigns random numerical values, or "weights", to connections between them. The weights and inputs are multiplied and return an output between 0 and 1. If the network didn’t accurately recognize a particular pattern, an algorithm would adjust the weights.[10 That way the algorithm can make certain parameters more influential, until it determines the correct mathematical manipulation to fully process the data. 
 As with ANNs, many issues can arise with naively trained DNNs. Two common issues are overfitting and computation time. 
 DNNs are prone to overfitting because of the added layers of abstraction, which allow them to model rare dependencies in the training data. Regularization methods such as Ivakhnenko's unit pruning or weight decay ( ℓ 2 {\displaystyle \ell _{2}} -regularization) or sparsity ( ℓ 1 {\displaystyle \ell _{1}} -regularization) can be applied during training to combat overfitting. Alternatively dropout regularization randomly omits units from the hidden layers during training. This helps to exclude rare dependencies. Finally, data can be augmented via methods such as cropping and rotating such that smaller training sets can be increased in size to reduce the chances of overfitting. 
 DNNs must consider many training parameters, such as the size (number of layers and number of units per layer), the learning rate, and initial weights. Sweeping through the parameter space for optimal parameters may not be feasible due to the cost in time and computational resources. Various tricks, such as batching (computing the gradient on several training examples at once rather than individual examples) speed up computation. Large processing capabilities of many-core architectures (such as, GPUs or the Intel Xeon Phi) have produced significant speedups in training, because of the suitability of such processing architectures for the matrix and vector computations. 
 Alternatively, engineers may look for other types of neural networks with more straightforward and convergent training algorithms. CMAC (cerebellar model articulation controller) is one such kind of neural network. It doesn't require learning rates or randomized initial weights for CMAC. The training process can be guaranteed to converge in one step with a new batch of data, and the computational complexity of the training algorithm is linear with respect to the number of neurons involved. 
 Large-scale automatic speech recognition is the first and most convincing successful case of deep learning. LSTM RNNs can learn "Very Deep Learning" tasks that involve multi-second intervals containing speech events separated by thousands of discrete time steps, where one time step corresponds to about 10 ms. LSTM with forget gates[10 is competitive with traditional speech recognizers on certain tasks. 
 The initial success in speech recognition was based on small-scale recognition tasks based on TIMIT. The data set contains 630 speakers from eight major dialects of American English, where each speaker reads 10 sentences. Its small size lets many configurations be tried. More importantly, the TIMIT task concerns phone-sequence recognition, which, unlike word-sequence recognition, allows weak phone bigram language models. This lets the strength of the acoustic modeling aspects of speech recognition be more easily analyzed. The error rates listed below, including these early results and measured as percent phone error rates (PER), have been summarized since 1991. 
 Hierarchical Convolutional Deep Maxout Network 
 16.5 
 The debut of DNNs for speaker recognition in the late 1990s and speech recognition around 2009-2011 and of LSTM around 2003-2007, accelerated progress in eight major areas:[10 
 Scale-up/out and acclerated DNN training and decoding 
 Sequence discriminative training 
 Feature processing by deep models with solid understanding of the underlying mechanisms 
 CNNs and how to design them to best exploit domain knowledge of speech 
 RNN and its rich LSTM variants 
 Other types of deep models including tensor-based models and integrated deep generative/discriminative models. 
 A common evaluation set for image classification is the MNIST database data set. MNIST is composed of handwritten digits and includes 60,000 training examples and 10,000 test examples. As with TIMIT, its small size lets users test multiple configurations. A comprehensive list of results on this set is available. 
 Deep learning-based image recognition has become "superhuman", producing more accurate results than human contestants. This first occurred in 2011. 
 Deep learning-trained vehicles now interpret 360° camera views. Another example is Facial Dysmorphology Novel Analysis (FDNA) used to analyze cases of human malformation connected to a large database of genetic syndromes. 
 Closely related to the progress that has been made in image recognition is the increasing application of deep learning techniques to various visual art tasks. DNNs have proven themselves capable, for example, of a) identifying the style period of a given painting, b) Neural Style Transfer - capturing the style of a given artwork and applying it in a visually pleasing manner to an arbitrary photograph or video, and c) generating striking imagery based on random visual input fields.[130 
 Neural networks have been used for implementing language models since the early 2000s.[10 LSTM helped to improve machine translation and language modeling.[10[10[10 
 Other key techniques in this field are negative sampling and word embedding. Word embedding, such as word2vec, can be thought of as a representational layer in a deep learning architecture that transforms an atomic word into a positional representation of the word relative to other words in the dataset; the position is represented as a point in a vector space. Using word embedding as an RNN input layer allows the network to parse sentences and phrases using an effective compositional vector grammar. A compositional vector grammar can be thought of as probabilistic context free grammar (PCFG) implemented by an RNN. Recursive auto-encoders built atop word embeddings can assess sentence similarity and detect paraphrasing. Deep neural architectures provide the best results for constituency parsing, sentiment analysis, information retrieval, spoken language understanding, machine translation,[10[140 contextual entity linking,[140 writing style recognition, Text classification and others. 
 A large percentage of candidate drugs fail to win regulatory approval. These failures are caused by insufficient efficacy (on-target effect), undesired interactions (off-target effects), or unanticipated toxic effects.[150 Research has explored use of deep learning to predict the biomolecular targets, off-targets, and toxic effects of environmental chemicals in nutrients, household products and drugs.[90 
 Deep reinforcement learning has been used to approximate the value of possible direct marketing actions, defined in terms of RFM variables. The estimated value function was shown to have a natural interpretation as customer lifetime value. 
 Recommendation systems have used deep learning to extract meaningful features for a latent factor model for content-based music recommendations. Multiview deep learning has been applied for learning user preferences from multiple domains. The model uses a hybrid collaborative and content-based approach and enhances recommendations in multiple tasks. 
 In medical informatics, deep learning was used to predict sleep quality based on data from wearables[160 and predictions of health complications from electronic health record data. Deep learning has also showed efficacy in healthcare. 
 Artificial intelligence and deep learning in relation to healthcare[edit 
 In past years the healthcare field has seen benefits from the universalization of artificially intelligent machines to perform tasks (for example, measuring blood pressure), but not to learn how to interpret what we know. This is the major development we are seeing now that could drastically advance our diagnostic abilities. In correlation we might also observe better survival rates for certain diseases as we are able to focus on the prevention of disease, rather than the backwards approach of trying to treat the disease once it has been acquired. This is being done through a variant of artificial intelligence called “deep learning,” in which software “learns to recognize patterns in distinct layers… and each neural-network layer operates both independently and in concert, separating aspects such as color, size and shape before integrating the outcomes” of medical imaging (Forbes, 2018). This advancement in the use of visual tools is vital to the advancement of medical diagnostics. The key idea here is that in past years we’ve only utilized artificial intelligence at its most basic level—by teaching machines to perform human skills. While this has been a great advancement, the new ideas being explored about machine learning and deep learning are having an even greater impact on healthcare now and will continue to yield success upon future discovery. “These newer visual tools hold the promise of transforming diagnostic medicine and can even search for cancer at the individual cell level.” (Forbes, 2018). 
 Finding the appropriate mobile audience for mobile advertising is always challenging, since many data points must be considered and assimilated before a target segment can be created and used in ad serving by any ad server. Deep learning has been used to interpret large, many-dimensioned advertising datasets. Many data points are collected during the request/serve/click internet advertising cycle. This information can form the basis of machine learning to improve ad selection. 
 Deep learning is being successfully applied to financial fraud detection and anti-money laundering. "Deep anti-money laundering detection system can spot and recognize relationships and similarities between data and, further down the road, learn to detect anomalies or classify and predict specific events". The solution leverages both supervised learning techniques, such as the classification of suspicious transactions, and unsupervised learning, e.g. anomaly detection.  
 The United States Department of Defense applied deep learning to train robots in new tasks through observation. 
 Relation to human cognitive and brain development[edit 
 Deep learning is closely related to a class of theories of brain development (specifically, neocortical development) proposed by cognitive neuroscientists in the early 1990s.[170 These developmental theories were instantiated in computational models, making them predecessors of deep learning systems. These developmental models share the property that various proposed learning dynamics in the brain (e.g., a wave of nerve growth factor) support the self-organization somewhat analogous to the neural networks utilized in deep learning models. Like the neocortex, neural networks employ a hierarchy of layered filters in which each layer considers information from a prior layer (or the operating environment), and then passes its output (and possibly the original input), to other layers. This process yields a self-organizing stack of transducers, well-tuned to their operating environment. A 1995 description stated, "...the infant's brain seems to organize itself under the influence of waves of so-called trophic-factors ... different regions of the brain become connected sequentially, with one layer of tissue maturing before another and so on until the whole brain is mature." 
 A variety of approaches have been used to investigate the plausibility of deep learning models from a neurobiological perspective. On the one hand, several variants of the backpropagation algorithm have been proposed in order to increase its processing realism. Other researchers have argued that unsupervised forms of deep learning, such as those based on hierarchical generative models and deep belief networks, may be closer to biological reality. In this respect, generative neural network models have been related to neurobiological evidence about sampling-based processing in the cerebral cortex. 
 Although a systematic comparison between the human brain organization and the neuronal encoding in deep networks has not yet been established, several analogies have been reported. For example, the computations performed by deep learning units could be similar to those of actual neurons and neural populations. Similarly, the representations developed by deep learning models are similar to those measured in the primate visual system[180 both at the single-unit and at the population levels. 
 Google's DeepMind Technologies developed a system capable of learning how to play Atari video games using only pixels as data input. In 2015 they demonstrated their AlphaGo system, which learned the game of Go well enough to beat a professional Go player. Google Translate uses an LSTM to translate between more than 100 languages. 
 In 2015, Blippar demonstrated a mobile augmented reality application that uses deep learning to recognize objects in real time. 
 As of 2008, researchers at The University of Texas at Austin (UT) developed a machine learning framework called Training an Agent Manually via Evaluative Reinforcement, or TAMER, which proposed new methods for robots or computer programs to learn how to perform tasks by interacting with a human instructor. 
 First developed as TAMER, a new algorithm called Deep TAMER was later introduced in 2018 during a collaboration between U.S. Army Research Laboratory (ARL) and UT researchers. Deep TAMER used deep learning to provide a robot the ability to learn new tasks through observation. 
 Using Deep TAMER, a robot learned a task with a human trainer, watching video streams or observing a human perform a task in-person. The robot later practiced the task with the help of some coaching from the trainer, who provided feedback such as “good job” and “bad job.” 
 Deep learning has attracted both criticism and comment, in some cases from outside the field of computer science. 
 A main criticism concerns the lack of theory surrounding some methods.[190 Learning in the most common deep architectures is implemented using well-understood gradient descent. However, the theory surrounding other algorithms, such as contrastive divergence is less clear.[citation needed (e.g., Does it converge? If so, how fast? What is it approximating?) Deep learning methods are often looked at as a black box, with most confirmations done empirically, rather than theoretically. 
 Others point out that deep learning should be looked at as a step towards realizing strong AI, not as an all-encompassing solution. Despite the power of deep learning methods, they still lack much of the functionality needed for realizing this goal entirely. Research psychologist Gary Marcus noted: 
 "Realistically, deep learning is only part of the larger challenge of building intelligent machines. Such techniques lack ways of representing causal relationships (...) have no obvious ways of performing logical inferences, and they are also still a long way from integrating abstract knowledge, such as information about what objects are, what they are for, and how they are typically used. The most powerful A.I. systems, like Watson (...) use techniques like deep learning as just one element in a very complicated ensemble of techniques, ranging from the statistical technique of Bayesian inference to deductive reasoning." 
 As an alternative to this emphasis on the limits of deep learning, one author speculated that it might be possible to train a machine vision stack to perform the sophisticated task of discriminating between "old master" and amateur figure drawings, and hypothesized that such a sensitivity might represent the rudiments of a non-trivial machine empathy. This same author proposed that this would be in line with anthropology, which identifies a concern with aesthetics as a key element of behavioral modernity. 
 In further reference to the idea that artistic sensitivity might inhere within relatively low levels of the cognitive hierarchy, a published series of graphic representations of the internal states of deep (20-30 layers) neural networks attempting to discern within essentially random data the images on which they were trained demonstrate a visual appeal: the original research notice received well over 1,000 comments, and was the subject of what was for a time the most frequently accessed article on The Guardian's web site. 
 Some deep learning architectures display problematic behaviors, such as confidently classifying unrecognizable images as belonging to a familiar category of ordinary images and misclassifying minuscule perturbations of correctly classified images. Goertzel hypothesized that these behaviors are due to limitations in their internal representations and that these limitations would inhibit integration into heterogeneous multi-component artificial general intelligence (AGI) architectures. These issues may possibly be addressed by deep learning architectures that internally form states homologous to image-grammar[200 decompositions of observed entities and events. Learning a grammar (visual or linguistic) from training data would be equivalent to restricting the system to commonsense reasoning that operates on concepts in terms of grammatical production rules and is a basic goal of both human language acquisition[20 and artificial intelligence (AI).[20 
 As deep learning moves from the lab into the world, research and experience shows that artificial neural networks are vulnerable to hacks and deception. By identifying patterns that these systems use to function, attackers can modify inputs to ANNs in such a way that the ANN finds a match that human observers would not recognize. For example, an attacker can make subtle changes to an image such that the ANN finds a match even though the image looks to a human nothing like the search target. Such a manipulation is termed an “adversarial attack.” In 2016 researchers used one ANN to doctor images in trial and error fashion, identify another's focal points and thereby generate images that deceived it. The modified images looked no different to human eyes. Another group showed that printouts of doctored images then photographed successfully tricked an image classification system.[20 One defense is reverse image search, in which a possible fake image is submitted to a site such as TinEye that can then find other instances of it. A refinement is to search using only parts of the image, to identify images from which that piece may have been taken.[20 
 Another group showed that certain psychedelic spectacles could fool a facial recognition system into thinking ordinary people were celebrities, potentially allowing one person to impersonate another. In 2017 researchers added stickers to stop signs and caused an ANN to misclassify them.[20 
 ANNs can however be further trained to detect attempts at deception, potentially leading attackers and defenders into an arms race similar to the kind that already defines the malware defense industry. ANNs have been trained to defeat ANN-based anti-malware software by repeatedly attacking a defense with malware that was continually altered by a genetic algorithm until it tricked the anti-malware while retaining its ability to damage the target.[20 
 Another group demonstrated that certain sounds could make the Google Now voice command system open a particular web address that would download malware.[20 
 In “data poisoning”, false data is continually smuggled into a machine learning system’s training set to prevent it from achieving mastery.[20 
 ^ a b c d e f Bengio, Y.; Courville, A.; Vincent, P. (2013). "Representation Learning: A Review and New Perspectives". IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence. 35 (8): 1798–1828. arXiv:1206.5538. doi:10.1109/tpami.2013.50. PMID 23787338. 
 ^ a b Jürgen Schmidhuber (2015). Deep Learning. Scholarpedia, 10(11):32832. Online 
 ^ a b Balázs Csanád Csáji (2001). Approximation with Artificial Neural Networks; Faculty of Sciences; Eötvös Loránd University, Hungary 
 ^ Rina Dechter (1986). Learning while searching in constraint-satisfaction problems. University of California, Computer Science Department, Cognitive Systems Laboratory.Online 
 ^ Igor Aizenberg, Naum N. Aizenberg, Joos P.L. Vandewalle (2000). Multi-Valued and Universal Binary Neurons: Theory, Learning and Applications. Springer Science & Business Media. 
 ^ Co-evolving recurrent neurons learn deep memory POMDPs. Proc. GECCO, Washington, D. C., pp. 1795-1802, ACM Press, New York, NY, USA, 2005. 
 ^ a b Ivakhnenko, Alexey (1971). "Polynomial theory of complex systems". IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics. 1 (4): 364–378. doi:10.1109/TSMC.1971.4308320. 
 ^ Fukushima, K. (1980). "Neocognitron: A self-organizing neural network model for a mechanism of pattern recognition unaffected by shift in position". Biol. Cybern. 36 (4): 193–202. doi:10.1007/bf00344251. PMID 7370364. 
 ^ Seppo Linnainmaa (1970). The representation of the cumulative rounding error of an algorithm as a Taylor expansion of the local rounding errors. Master's Thesis (in Finnish), Univ. Helsinki, 6-7. 
 ^ a b LeCun et al., "Backpropagation Applied to Handwritten Zip Code Recognition," Neural Computation, 1, pp. 541–551, 1989. 
 ^ de Carvalho, Andre C. L. F.; Fairhurst, Mike C.; Bisset, David (1994-08-08). "An integrated Boolean neural network for pattern classification". Pattern Recognition Letters. 15 (8): 807–813. doi:10.1016/0167-8655(94)90009-4. 
 ^ Morgan, Nelson; Bourlard, Hervé; Renals, Steve; Cohen, Michael; Franco, Horacio (1993-08-01). "Hybrid neural network/hidden markov model systems for continuous speech recognition". International Journal of Pattern Recognition and Artificial Intelligence. 07 (4): 899–916. doi:10.1142/s0218001493000455. ISSN 0218-0014. 
 ^ Waibel, A.; Hanazawa, T.; Hinton, G.; Shikano, K.; Lang, K. J. (March 1989). "Phoneme recognition using time-delay neural networks". IEEE Transactions on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing. 37 (3): 328–339. doi:10.1109/29.21701. ISSN 0096-3518. 
 ^ Baker, J.; Deng, Li; Glass, Jim; Khudanpur, S.; Lee, C.-H.; Morgan, N.; O'Shaughnessy, D. (2009). "Research Developments and Directions in Speech Recognition and Understanding, Part 1". IEEE Signal Processing Magazine. 26 (3): 75–80. Bibcode:2009ISPM...26...75B. doi:10.1109/msp.2009.932166. 
 ^ Deng, L.; Hassanein, K.; Elmasry, M. (1994). "Analysis of correlation structure for a neural predictive model with applications to speech recognition". Neural Networks. 7 (2): 331–339. doi:10.1016/0893-6080(94)90027-2. 
 ^ a b Heck, L.; Konig, Y.; Sonmez, M.; Weintraub, M. (2000). "Robustness to Telephone Handset Distortion in Speaker Recognition by Discriminative Feature Design". Speech Communication. 31 (2): 181–192. doi:10.1016/s0167-6393(99)00077-1. 
 ^ a b Graves, Alex; Eck, Douglas; Beringer, Nicole; Schmidhuber, Jürgen (2003). "Biologically Plausible Speech Recognition with LSTM Neural Nets" (PDF). 1st Intl. Workshop on Biologically Inspired Approaches to Advanced Information Technology, Bio-ADIT 2004, Lausanne, Switzerland. pp. 175–184. 
 ^ a b Graves, Alex; Fernández, Santiago; Gomez, Faustino (2006). "Connectionist temporal classification: Labelling unsegmented sequence data with recurrent neural networks". Proceedings of the International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2006: 369–376. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.75.6306. 
 ^ a b c Hinton, G.; Deng, L.; Yu, D.; Dahl, G.; Mohamed, A.; Jaitly, N.; Senior, A.; Vanhoucke, V.; Nguyen, P.; Sainath, T.; Kingsbury, B. (2012). "Deep Neural Networks for Acoustic Modeling in Speech Recognition --- The shared views of four research groups". IEEE Signal Processing Magazine. 29 (6): 82–97. doi:10.1109/msp.2012.2205597. 
 ^ Li, Xiangang; Wu, Xihong (2014). "Constructing Long Short-Term Memory based Deep Recurrent Neural Networks for Large Vocabulary Speech Recognition". arXiv:1410.4281 [cs.CL. 
 ^ a b c NIPS Workshop: Deep Learning for Speech Recognition and Related Applications, Whistler, BC, Canada, Dec. 2009 (Organizers: Li Deng, Geoff Hinton, D. Yu). 
 ^ a b Keynote talk: Recent Developments in Deep Neural Networks. ICASSP, 2013 (by Geoff Hinton). 
 ^ D. Yu, L. Deng, G. Li, and F. Seide (2011). "Discriminative pretraining of deep neural networks," U.S. Patent Filing. 
 ^ a b Oh, K.-S.; Jung, K. (2004). "GPU implementation of neural networks". Pattern Recognition. 37 (6): 1311–1314. doi:10.1016/j.patcog.2004.01.013. 
 ^ a b Chellapilla, K., Puri, S., and Simard, P. (2006). High performance convolutional neural networks for document processing. International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition. 
 ^ Cireşan, Dan Claudiu; Meier, Ueli; Gambardella, Luca Maria; Schmidhuber, Jürgen (2010-09-21). "Deep, Big, Simple Neural Nets for Handwritten Digit Recognition". Neural Computation. 22 (12): 3207–3220. arXiv:1003.0358. doi:10.1162/neco_a_00052. ISSN 0899-7667. PMID 20858131. 
 ^ Raina, Rajat; Madhavan, Anand; Ng, Andrew Y. (2009). "Large-scale Deep Unsupervised Learning Using Graphics Processors". Proceedings of the 26th Annual International Conference on Machine Learning. ICML '09. New York, NY, USA: ACM: 873–880. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.154.372. doi:10.1145/1553374.1553486. ISBN 9781605585161. 
 ^ Sze, Vivienne; Chen, Yu-Hsin; Yang, Tien-Ju; Emer, Joel (2017). "Efficient Processing of Deep Neural Networks: A Tutorial and Survey". arXiv:1703.09039 [cs.CV. 
 ^ Ciresan, Dan; Giusti, Alessandro; Gambardella, Luca M.; Schmidhuber, Juergen (2012). Pereira, F.; Burges, C. J. C.; Bottou, L.; Weinberger, K. Q., eds. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 25 (PDF). Curran Associates, Inc. pp. 2843–2851. 
 ^ Ciresan, D.; Giusti, A.; Gambardella, L.M.; Schmidhuber, J. (2013). "Mitosis Detection in Breast Cancer Histology Images using Deep Neural Networks". Proceedings MICCAI. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. 7908: 411–418. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-40763-5_51. ISBN 978-3-642-38708-1. 
 ^ Vinyals, Oriol; Toshev, Alexander; Bengio, Samy; Erhan, Dumitru (2014). "Show and Tell: A Neural Image Caption Generator". arXiv:1411.4555 [cs.CV.. 
 ^ Fang, Hao; Gupta, Saurabh; Iandola, Forrest; Srivastava, Rupesh; Deng, Li; Dollár, Piotr; Gao, Jianfeng; He, Xiaodong; Mitchell, Margaret; Platt, John C; Lawrence Zitnick, C; Zweig, Geoffrey (2014). "From Captions to Visual Concepts and Back". arXiv:1411.4952 [cs.CV.. 
 ^ Kiros, Ryan; Salakhutdinov, Ruslan; Zemel, Richard S (2014). "Unifying Visual-Semantic Embeddings with Multimodal Neural Language Models". arXiv:1411.2539 [cs.LG.. 
 ^ Zhong, Sheng-hua; Liu, Yan; Liu, Yang (2011). "Bilinear Deep Learning for Image Classification". Proceedings of the 19th ACM International Conference on Multimedia. MM '11. New York, NY, USA: ACM: 343–352. doi:10.1145/2072298.2072344. ISBN 9781450306164. 
 ^ Silver, David; Huang, Aja; Maddison, Chris J.; Guez, Arthur; Sifre, Laurent; Driessche, George van den; Schrittwieser, Julian; Antonoglou, Ioannis; Panneershelvam, Veda (January 2016). "Mastering the game of Go with deep neural networks and tree search". Nature. 529 (7587): 484–489. Bibcode:2016Natur.529..484S. doi:10.1038/nature16961. ISSN 1476-4687. PMID 26819042. 
 ^ a b Gers, Felix A.; Schmidhuber, Jürgen (2001). "LSTM Recurrent Networks Learn Simple Context Free and Context Sensitive Languages". IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. 12 (6): 1333–1340. doi:10.1109/72.963769. PMID 18249962. 
 ^ a b Jozefowicz, Rafal; Vinyals, Oriol; Schuster, Mike; Shazeer, Noam; Wu, Yonghui (2016). "Exploring the Limits of Language Modeling". arXiv:1602.02410 [cs.CL. 
 ^ a b Gillick, Dan; Brunk, Cliff; Vinyals, Oriol; Subramanya, Amarnag (2015). "Multilingual Language Processing from Bytes". arXiv:1512.00103 [cs.CL. 
 ^ LeCun, Y.; et al. (1998). "Gradient-based learning applied to document recognition". Proceedings of the IEEE. 86 (11): 2278–2324. doi:10.1109/5.726791. 
 ^ Viebke, André; Memeti, Suejb; Pllana, Sabri; Abraham, Ajith (March 2017). "CHAOS: a parallelization scheme for training convolutional neural networks on Intel Xeon Phi". The Journal of Supercomputing. 75: 197–227. doi:10.1007/s11227-017-1994-x. 
 ^ Ting Qin, et al. "A learning algorithm of CMAC based on RLS." Neural Processing Letters 19.1 (2004): 49-61. 
 ^ TIMIT Acoustic-Phonetic Continuous Speech Corpus Linguistic Data Consortium, Philadelphia. 
 ^ Robinson, Tony (30 September 1991). "Several Improvements to a Recurrent Error Propagation Network Phone Recognition System". Cambridge University Engineering Department Technical Report. CUED/F-INFENG/TR82. doi:10.13140/RG.2.2.15418.90567. 
 ^ Abdel-Hamid, O.; et al. (2014). "Convolutional Neural Networks for Speech Recognition". IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing. 22 (10): 1533–1545. doi:10.1109/taslp.2014.2339736. 
 ^ Tóth, Laszló (2015). "Phone Recognition with Hierarchical Convolutional Deep Maxout Networks". EURASIP Journal on Audio, Speech, and Music Processing. 2015. doi:10.1186/s13636-015-0068-3. 
 ^ Cireşan, Dan; Meier, Ueli; Masci, Jonathan; Schmidhuber, Jürgen (August 2012). "Multi-column deep neural network for traffic sign classification". Neural Networks. Selected Papers from IJCNN 2011. 32: 333–338. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.226.8219. doi:10.1016/j.neunet.2012.02.023. PMID 22386783. 
 ^ a b Socher, Richard; Manning, Christopher. "Deep Learning for NLP" (PDF). Retrieved 26 October 2014. 
 ^ Brocardo, Marcelo Luiz; Traore, Issa; Woungang, Isaac; Obaidat, Mohammad S. (2017). "Authorship verification using deep belief network systems". International Journal of Communication Systems. 30 (12): e3259. doi:10.1002/dac.3259. 
 ^ a b Boitet, Christian; Blanchon, Hervé; Seligman, Mark; Bellynck, Valérie (2010). "MT on and for the Web" (PDF). Retrieved December 1, 2016. 
 ^ Arrowsmith, J; Miller, P (2013). "Trial watch: Phase II and phase III attrition rates 2011-2012". Nature Reviews Drug Discovery. 12 (8): 569. doi:10.1038/nrd4090. PMID 23903212. 
 ^ Verbist, B; Klambauer, G; Vervoort, L; Talloen, W; The Qstar, Consortium; Shkedy, Z; Thas, O; Bender, A; Göhlmann, H. W.; Hochreiter, S (2015). "Using transcriptomics to guide lead optimization in drug discovery projects: Lessons learned from the QSTAR project". Drug Discovery Today. 20 (5): 505–513. doi:10.1016/j.drudis.2014.12.014. PMID 25582842. 
 ^ Wallach, Izhar; Dzamba, Michael; Heifets, Abraham (2015-10-09). "AtomNet: A Deep Convolutional Neural Network for Bioactivity Prediction in Structure-based Drug Discovery". arXiv:1510.02855 [cs.LG. 
 ^ Tkachenko, Yegor (April 8, 2015). "Autonomous CRM Control via CLV Approximation with Deep Reinforcement Learning in Discrete and Continuous Action Space". arXiv:1504.01840 [cs.LG. 
 ^ van den Oord, Aaron; Dieleman, Sander; Schrauwen, Benjamin (2013). Burges, C. J. C.; Bottou, L.; Welling, M.; Ghahramani, Z.; Weinberger, K. Q., eds. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 26 (PDF). Curran Associates, Inc. pp. 2643–2651. 
 ^ Chicco, Davide; Sadowski, Peter; Baldi, Pierre (1 January 2014). Deep Autoencoder Neural Networks for Gene Ontology Annotation Predictions. Proceedings of the 5th ACM Conference on Bioinformatics, Computational Biology, and Health Informatics - BCB '14. ACM. pp. 533–540. doi:10.1145/2649387.2649442. hdl:11311/964622. ISBN 9781450328944. 
 ^ Shrager, J.; Johnson, MH (1996). "Dynamic plasticity influences the emergence of function in a simple cortical array". Neural Networks. 9 (7): 1119–1129. doi:10.1016/0893-6080(96)00033-0. PMID 12662587. 
 ^ Quartz, SR; Sejnowski, TJ (1997). "The neural basis of cognitive development: A constructivist manifesto". Behavioral and Brain Sciences. 20 (4): 537–556. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.41.7854. doi:10.1017/s0140525x97001581. 
 ^ S. Blakeslee., "In brain's early growth, timetable may be critical," The New York Times, Science Section, pp. B5–B6, 1995. 
 ^ Testolin, Alberto; Stoianov, Ivilin; Zorzi, Marco (September 2017). "Letter perception emerges from unsupervised deep learning and recycling of natural image features". Nature Human Behaviour. 1 (9): 657–664. doi:10.1038/s41562-017-0186-2. ISSN 2397-3374. 
 ^ Morel, Danielle; Singh, Chandan; Levy, William B. (2018-01-25). "Linearization of excitatory synaptic integration at no extra cost". Journal of Computational Neuroscience. 44 (2): 173–188. doi:10.1007/s10827-017-0673-5. ISSN 0929-5313. PMID 29372434. 
 ^ Yamins, Daniel L K; DiCarlo, James J (March 2016). "Using goal-driven deep learning models to understand sensory cortex". Nature Neuroscience. 19 (3): 356–365. doi:10.1038/nn.4244. ISSN 1546-1726. 
 ^ Güçlü, Umut; van Gerven, Marcel A. J. (2015-07-08). "Deep Neural Networks Reveal a Gradient in the Complexity of Neural Representations across the Ventral Stream". Journal of Neuroscience. 35 (27): 10005–10014. doi:10.1523/jneurosci.5023-14.2015. PMID 26157000. 
 ^ Smith, G. W. (March 27, 2015). "Art and Artificial Intelligence". ArtEnt. Archived from the original on June 25, 2017. Retrieved March 27, 2015.CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown (link) 
 ^ Nguyen, Anh; Yosinski, Jason; Clune, Jeff (2014). "Deep Neural Networks are Easily Fooled: High Confidence Predictions for Unrecognizable Images". arXiv:1412.1897 [cs.CV. 
 ^ Szegedy, Christian; Zaremba, Wojciech; Sutskever, Ilya; Bruna, Joan; Erhan, Dumitru; Goodfellow, Ian; Fergus, Rob (2013). "Intriguing properties of neural networks". arXiv:1312.6199 [cs.CV. 
 ^ Miller, G. A., and N. Chomsky. "Pattern conception." Paper for Conference on pattern detection, University of Michigan. 1957. 
 Software development is the process of conceiving, specifying, designing, programming, documenting, testing, and bug fixing involved in creating and maintaining applications, frameworks, or other software components. Software development is a process of writing and maintaining the source code, but in a broader sense, it includes all that is involved between the conception of the desired software through to the final manifestation of the software, sometimes in a planned and structured process. Therefore, software development may include research, new development, prototyping, modification, reuse, re-engineering, maintenance, or any other activities that result in software products. 
 Software can be developed for a variety of purposes, the three most common being to meet specific needs of a specific client/business (the case with custom software), to meet a perceived need of some set of potential users (the case with commercial and open source software), or for personal use (e.g. a scientist may write software to automate a mundane task). Embedded software development, that is, the development of embedded software, such as used for controlling consumer products, requires the development process to be integrated with the development of the controlled physical product. System software underlies applications and the programming process itself, and is often developed separately. 
 The need for better quality control of the software development process has given rise to the discipline of software engineering, which aims to apply the systematic approach exemplified in the engineering paradigm to the process of software development. 
 There are many approaches to software project management, known as software development life cycle models, methodologies, processes, or models. The waterfall model is a traditional version, contrasted with the more recent innovation of agile software development. 
 A software development process (also known as a software development methodology, model, or life cycle) is a framework that is used to structure, plan, and control the process of developing information systems. A wide variety of such frameworks has evolved over the years, each with its own recognized strengths and weaknesses. There are several different approaches to software development: some take a more structured, engineering-based approach to develop business solutions, whereas others may take a more incremental approach, where software evolves as it is developed piece-by-piece. One system development methodology is not necessarily suitable for use by all projects. Each of the available methodologies is best suited to specific kinds of projects, based on various technical, organizational, project and team considerations.  
 Most methodologies share some combination of the following stages of software development: 
 Analyzing the problem 
 Market research 
 Gathering requirements for the proposed business solution 
 Devising a plan or design for the software-based solution 
 These stages are often referred to collectively as the software development life-cycle, or SDLC. Different approaches to software development may carry out these stages in different orders, or devote more or less time to different stages. The level of detail of the documentation produced at each stage of software development may also vary. These stages may also be carried out in turn (a “waterfall” based approach), or they may be repeated over various cycles or iterations (a more "extreme" approach). The more extreme approach usually involves less time spent on planning and documentation, and more time spent on coding and development of automated tests. More “extreme” approaches also promote continuous testing throughout the development life-cycle, as well as having a working (or bug-free) product at all times. More structured or “waterfall” based approaches attempt to assess the majority of risks and develop a detailed plan for the software before implementation (coding) begins, and avoid significant design changes and re-coding in later stages of the software development life-cycle planning. 
 There are significant advantages and disadvantages to the various methodologies, and the best approach to solving a problem using software will often depend on the type of problem. If the problem is well understood and a solution can be effectively planned out ahead of time, the more "waterfall" based approach may work the best. If, on the other hand, the problem is unique (at least to the development team) and the structure of the software solution cannot be easily envisioned, then a more "extreme" incremental approach may work best. 
 The sources of ideas for software products are plentiful. These ideas can come from market research including the demographics of potential new customers, existing customers, sales prospects who rejected the product, other internal software development staff, or a creative third party. Ideas for software products are usually first evaluated by marketing personnel for economic feasibility, for fit with existing channels distribution, for possible effects on existing product lines, required features, and for fit with the company's marketing objectives. In a marketing evaluation phase, the cost and time assumptions become evaluated. A decision is reached early in the first phase as to whether, based on the more detailed information generated by the marketing and development staff, the project should be pursued further. 
 In the book "Great Software Debates", Alan M. Davis states in the chapter "Requirements", sub-chapter "The Missing Piece of Software Development" 
 Students of engineering learn engineering and are rarely exposed to finance or marketing. Students of marketing learn marketing and are rarely exposed to finance or engineering. Most of us become specialists in just one area. To complicate matters, few of us meet interdisciplinary people in the workforce, so there are few roles to mimic. Yet, software product planning is critical to the development success and absolutely requires knowledge of multiple disciplines. 
 Planning is an objective of each and every activity, where we want to discover things that belong to the project. An important task in creating a software program is extracting the requirements or requirements analysis. Customers typically have an abstract idea of what they want as an end result but do not know what software should do. Skilled and experienced software engineers recognize incomplete, ambiguous, or even contradictory requirements at this point. Frequently demonstrating live code may help reduce the risk that the requirements are incorrect. 
 "Although much effort is put in the requirements phase to ensure that requirements are complete and consistent, rarely that is the case; leaving the software design phase as the most influential one when it comes to minimizing the effects of new or changing requirements. Requirements volatility is challenging because they impact future or already going development efforts." 
 Once the general requirements are gathered from the client, an analysis of the scope of the development should be determined and clearly stated. This is often called a scope document. 
 Once the requirements are established, the design of the software can be established in a software design document. This involves a preliminary or high-level design of the main modules with an overall picture (such as a block diagram) of how the parts fit together. The language, operating system, and hardware components should all be known at this time. Then a detailed or low-level design is created, perhaps with prototyping as proof-of-concept or to firm up requirements. 
 Software testing is an integral and important phase of the software development process. This part of the process ensures that defects are recognized as soon as possible. In some processes, generally known as test-driven development, tests may be developed just before implementation and serve as a guide for the implementation's correctness. 
 Documenting the internal design of software for the purpose of future maintenance and enhancement is done throughout development. This may also include the writing of an API, be it external or internal. The software engineering process chosen by the developing team will determine how much internal documentation (if any) is necessary. Plan-driven models (e.g., Waterfall) generally produce more documentation than Agile models. 
 Deployment starts directly after the code is appropriately tested, approved for release, and sold or otherwise distributed into a production environment. This may involve installation, customization (such as by setting parameters to the customer's values), testing, and possibly an extended period of evaluation.[citation needed 
 Software training and support is important, as software is only effective if it is used correctly.[citation needed 
 Maintaining and enhancing software to cope with newly discovered faults or requirements can take substantial time and effort, as missed requirements may force redesign of the software.[citation needed 
 The purpose of viewpoints and views is to enable human engineers to comprehend very complex systems and to organize the elements of the problem and the solution around domains of expertise. In the engineering of physically intensive systems, viewpoints often correspond to capabilities and responsibilities within the engineering organization. 
 Most complex system specifications are so extensive that no one individual can fully comprehend all aspects of the specifications. Furthermore, we all have different interests in a given system and different reasons for examining the system's specifications. A business executive will ask different questions of a system make-up than would a system implementer. The concept of viewpoints framework, therefore, is to provide separate viewpoints into the specification of a given complex system. These viewpoints each satisfy an audience with interest in some set of aspects of the system. Associated with each viewpoint is a viewpoint language that optimizes the vocabulary and presentation for the audience of that viewpoint. 
 Graphical representation of the current state of information provides a very effective means for presenting information to both users and system developers. 
 example of the interaction between business process and data models. 
 A business model illustrates the functions associated with the business process being modeled and the organizations that perform these functions. By depicting activities and information flows, a foundation is created to visualize, define, understand, and validate the nature of a process. 
 A data model provides the details of information to be stored and is of primary use when the final product is the generation of computer software code for an application or the preparation of a functional specification to aid a computer software make-or-buy decision. See the figure on the right for an example of the interaction between business process and data models. 
 Usually, a model is created after conducting an interview, referred to as business analysis. The interview consists of a facilitator asking a series of questions designed to extract required information that describes a process. The interviewer is called a facilitator to emphasize that it is the participants who provide the information. The facilitator should have some knowledge of the process of interest, but this is not as important as having a structured methodology by which the questions are asked of the process expert. The methodology is important because usually a team of facilitators is collecting information across the facility and the results of the information from all the interviewers must fit together once completed. 
 The models are developed as defining either the current state of the process, in which case the final product is called the "as-is" snapshot model, or a collection of ideas of what the process should contain, resulting in a "what-can-be" model. Generation of process and data models can be used to determine if the existing processes and information systems are sound and only need minor modifications or enhancements, or if re-engineering is required as a corrective action. The creation of business models is more than a way to view or automate your information process. Analysis can be used to fundamentally reshape the way your business or organization conducts its operations. 
 Computer-aided software engineering (CASE), in the field software engineering, is the scientific application of a set of software tools and methods to the development of software which results in high-quality, defect-free, and maintainable software products.[10 It also refers to methods for the development of information systems together with automated tools that can be used in the software development process. The term "computer-aided software engineering" (CASE) can refer to the software used for the automated development of systems software, i.e., computer code. The CASE functions include analysis, design, and programming. CASE tools automate methods for designing, documenting, and producing structured computer code in the desired programming language. 
 Two key ideas of Computer-aided Software System Engineering (CASE) are: 
 Foster computer assistance in software development and software maintenance processes, and 
 An engineering approach to software development and maintenance. 
 IDEs are designed to maximize programmer productivity by providing tight-knit components with similar user interfaces. Typically an IDE is dedicated to a specific programming language, so as to provide a feature set which most closely matches the programming paradigms of the language. 
 A modeling language is any artificial language that can be used to express information or knowledge or systems in a structure that is defined by a consistent set of rules. The rules are used for interpretation of the meaning of components in the structure. A modeling language can be graphical or textual. Graphical modeling languages use a diagram techniques with named symbols that represent concepts and lines that connect the symbols and that represent relationships and various other graphical annotation to represent constraints. Textual modeling languages typically use standardised keywords accompanied by parameters to make computer-interpretable expressions. 
 Examples of graphical modelling languages in the field of software engineering are: 
 EXPRESS and EXPRESS-G (ISO 10303-11) is an international standard general-purpose data modeling language. 
 IDEF is a family of modeling languages, the most notable of which include IDEF0 for functional modeling, IDEF1X for information modeling, and IDEF5 for modeling ontologies. 
 Specification and Description Language(SDL) is a specification language targeted at the unambiguous specification and description of the behaviour of reactive and distributed systems. 
 Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a general-purpose modeling language that is an industry standard for specifying software-intensive systems. UML 2.0, the current version, supports thirteen different diagram techniques and has widespread tool support. 
 Not all modeling languages are executable, and for those that are, using them doesn't necessarily mean that programmers are no longer needed. On the contrary, executable modeling languages are intended to amplify the productivity of skilled programmers, so that they can address more difficult problems, such as parallel computing and distributed systems. 
 A programming paradigm is a fundamental style of computer programming, which is not generally dictated by the project management methodology (such as waterfall or agile). Paradigms differ in the concepts and abstractions used to represent the elements of a program (such as objects, functions, variables, constraints) and the steps that comprise a computation (such as assignations, evaluation, continuations, data flows). Sometimes the concepts asserted by the paradigm are utilized cooperatively in high-level system architecture design; in other cases, the programming paradigm's scope is limited to the internal structure of a particular program or module. 
 A programming language can support multiple paradigms. For example, programs written in C++ or Object Pascal can be purely procedural, or purely object-oriented, or contain elements of both paradigms. Software designers and programmers decide how to use those paradigm elements. In object-oriented programming, programmers can think of a program as a collection of interacting objects, while in functional programming a program can be thought of as a sequence of stateless function evaluations. When programming computers or systems with many processors, process-oriented programming allows programmers to think about applications as sets of concurrent processes acting upon logically shared data structures. 
 Many programming paradigms are as well known for what methods they forbid as for what they enable. For instance, pure functional programming forbids using side-effects; structured programming forbids using goto statements. Partly for this reason, new paradigms are often regarded as doctrinaire or overly rigid by those accustomed to earlier styles.[citation needed Avoiding certain methods can make it easier to prove theorems about a program's correctness, or simply to understand its behavior. 
 Grady Booch's object-oriented design (OOD), also known as object-oriented analysis and design (OOAD). The Booch model includes six diagrams: class, object, state transition, interaction, module, and process. 
 A software framework is a re-usable design or implementation for a software system or subsystem. 
 Open Source documentations, via libraries such as GitHub, provide free code for software developers to re-use and implement into new applications or designs. 
 ^ System Development Methodologies for Web-Enabled E-Business: A Customization Framework Linda V. Knight (DePaul University, USA), Theresa A. Steinbach (DePaul University, USA) and Vince Kellen (Blue Wolf, USA) 
 ^ Joseph M. Morris (2001). Software Industry Accounting. p.1.10 
 ^ Alan M. Davis. Great Software Debates (October 8, 2004), pp:125-128 Wiley-IEEE Computer Society Press 
 ^ Otero, Carlos. "Software Design Challenges". IT Performance Improvement. Taylor & Francis LLC. Retrieved 19 October 2017. 
 ^ Kuhn, D.L (1989). "Selecting and effectively using a computer-aided software engineering tool". Annual Westinghouse computer symposium; 6-7 Nov 1989; Pittsburgh, PA (USA); DOE Project. 
 ^ P. Loucopoulos and V. Karakostas (1995). System Requirements Engineering. McGraw-Hill. 
 ^ K. Robinson (1992). Putting the Software Engineering into CASE. New York : John Wiley and Sons Inc. 
 Kit, Edward (1992). Software Testing in The Real World. Addison-Wesley Professional. ISBN 0201877562. 
 McCarthy, Jim (1995). Dynamics of Software Development. Microsoft Press. ISBN 1556158238. 
 Conde, Dan (2002). Software Product Management: Managing Software Development from Idea to Product to Marketing to Sales. Aspatore Books. ISBN 1587622025. 
 Davis, A. M. (2005). Just enough requirements management: Where software development meets marketing. Dorset House Publishing Company, Incorporated. ISBN 0932633641. 
 Hasted, Edward (2005). Software That Sells: A Practical Guide to Developing and Marketing Your Software Project. Wiley Publishing. ISBN 0764597833. 
 Hohmann, Luke (2003). Beyond Software Architecture: Creating and Sustaining Winning Solutions. Addison-Wesley Professional. ISBN 0201775948. 
 John W. Horch (2005). "Two Orientations On How To Work With Objects." In: IEEE Software. vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 117–118, Mar., 1995. 
 Rittinghouse, John (2003). Managing Software Deliverables: A Software Development Management Methodology. Digital Press. ISBN 155558313X. 
 Wiegers, Karl E. (2005). More About Software Requirements: Thorny Issues and Practical Advice. Microsoft Press. ISBN 0735622671. 
 Wysocki, Robert K. (2006). Effective Software Project Management. Wiley. ISBN 0764596365. 
 Top 10 Programming Languages of the World – 2019 to begin with… 
 If you are a newbie in the field of software development, the very first question comes to your mind is “Where to begin?” That’s undoubtedly true! 
 There are hundreds to choose from, but how will you discover that yes, that’s the one? Which will be most suitable for you, your interests and career goals? 
 One of the easiest ways to pick the best programming language to learn for 2019 is by listening to what the market says, where the tech trend is going… 
 Moving down, you will find some of the best and most demanding programming languages for web development, mobile development, game development and more. 
 At the very end, you’ll be having a clear picture of which programming languages can help your career boost in upcoming years and beyond that. 
 It seems impossible to be a software developer these days without using JavaScript. The first one in the list is JavaScript, it seems impossible to imagine software development without JavaScript. 
 Looking at the Stack Overflow’s 2018 Developer Survey, JavaScript is the most popular language among developers successively for 6 years. And around 65% of them have used this language in the past year. 
 Primarily, JavaScript is light weighed, interpreted and plays a major role in front-end development. Even some of the major social media platforms believe that JavaScript provides an easy way to create interactive web pages smoothly and is career-driven. 
 JavaScript is most preferred because of its compatibility with all the major browsers and is really flexible with the syntax it holds. Being a Front-end language, JavaScript is also used on the server-side through Node.js. 
 Above all make JavaScript loveliest programming language among the beginners. 
 This may surprise you; I have kept python on number #2, in many of the surveys it is positioned on number #5. But, I will definitely let you believe, here’s why? 
 Python is one of the general purpose, user-friendly programming language here on my list. What makes it so? Like Java, Python syntax is clear, intuitive and almost similar to the English language. Python’s “object-based” subset is somewhere similar to JavaScript. 
 According to Stack Overflow, there is one section which says “To be adopted or migrated to be—or to migrate too soon”, and for python, it’s 12% which is highest. Broadly, people who have migrated to python are close to 42%, which signifies it to be at number #2. 
 If you are interested in making your career in back-end development, like Django – Open source framework, is written in python, which makes it easy to learn and feature-packed, yet popular. Also, python has a variety of applications that make it a versatile and powerful. 
 Being so popular in areas like scientific computing, and machine learning and engineering, Python supports a programming style that uses simple functions and variables without much interrogating in class definitions. 
 If anybody asks why java, most frequent sentence comes up would be “write once, run everywhere” – Java has been the ruling programming language for the last 20 years. Java is 99% object-oriented and is robust as java objects contain no references to data external to themselves. It is simpler than C++ because Java uses automatic memory allocation and garbage collection. 
 Java is highly cross-platform compatible or platform independent. Since you can code anywhere (I mean on all devices), compile into low-level machine code, and finally, execute on any platform using JVM – Java Virtual Machine (which is platform dependent). 
 Java forms the base for the Android operating system and opted around 90% fortune 500 companies for making a variety of back-end applications. I would not hesitate for taking the biggest sensation Apache Hadoop data processing, run by Amazon Web Services and Windows Azure. 
 With so many good reasons and a wide range of business applications, possessing immense flexibility and java is all time beginners’ favorite. 
 “Old is gold” – C has proved this quote in different ways. Being introduced in the late 1970s, C has made a strong contribution to the world of programming. 
 C has been the parent language of a handful; some are either derived from C or inspired by its syntax, constructs, and paradigms, including Java, Objective-C, and C#. 
 Even, nowadays, it is seen, whenever there is a need to build high-performance applications, C remains the most popular choice. 
 Linux OS is C based. And CPP is the hybrid version of C. C++ is an object-oriented programming language and which is built on C; therefore it is preferred over others for designing higher-level applications. 
 C++ is seeing as more performing than dynamically typed languages because the code is type-checked before it is executed on real grounds. Core areas of developments are Virtual Reality, gaming, computer graphics etc. 
 This fact would seriously amaze you, the language which was created for a purpose of maintaining Personal Home Page (PHP) for Rasmus, have actually taken over around 83% of websites globally by today. 
 PHP stands for Hypertext Preprocessor, is a general-purpose programming language. Clearly, PHP is a scripting language, which runs on a server, and it is used to create web pages written in HTML. It is popular because it is free, cheap, easy to set up and simple to use for new programmers. 
 PHP is a very strong option for web developers around the globe. It is widely used to create dynamic web page content, and images used on websites. It’s hitting on number #5 because of its broad range of usage. Also, PHP is well dressed for WordPress CMS (Content Management System). 
 One of the reason, it has lagged down to number #5, PHP downgrades the website performance and affects the loading time. 
 6. Swift 
 Next on the list is Swift. As smooth as its name, Swift is a general-purpose, open-source, compiled programming language developed by Apple Inc. If you are looking develop to native iOS or Mac OS apps then, Swift is barely needed for its development. 
 Swift is deeply influenced by Python and Ruby and was designed to be beginner-friendly and fun to use. Swift is considered to be a faster, more secure, and easier to read and debug than its predecessor Objective-C. 
 Unlike Objective-C, Swift requires less code, resembles with natural English. Hence, it becomes easier for existing techies from JavaScript, Java, Python, C#, and C++ to switch to Swift without hassle. 
 Besides this, some of the challenges are its limited talent pool. You may not find many Swift developers around you as compared to other open source languages. Recent surveys say, only 8.1% of the 78, 000 respondents use Swift, which is lesser compared to others. And due to frequent updates, Swift is considered to be less stable with every new release. 
 C-sharp is a powerful, object-oriented programming language developed by Microsoft in 2000. C-sharp is utilized in developing desktop applications and more recently, Windows 8/10 applications and requires a .NET framework to function. 
 Microsoft developed C# as a rival to Java. Actually, Sun did not want the interference of Microsoft to make changes in Java. So, it was created. 
 C# has a variety of features which makes it easier to learn for the beginners. The code is consistent, and logical as compared to C++. 
 Spotting errors in C# are easy as it is statically typed language, where the code is checked before turning it to an application. 
 In short, it is perfect to develop web applications, desktop application and also proved itself in VR, 2D, and 3D gaming. Cross-platform tools like Xamarin have written in C# makes it all devices compatible. 
 8. Ruby 
 An open source, dynamic programming language, focused on simplicity and productivity, developed in mid-1990 in Japan. It was designed with themed of simplifying the programming environment and making more fun. 
 Ruby becomes popular by Ruby on Rails framework, a full-stack web framework. Ruby has dynamically typed language, it does not have hard rules and it is a high-level language which resembles with the English language to a great extent. 
 In short, you can build an application with less line of code. But the challenge of Ruby is being dynamically typed language, it’s not easy to maintain and its flexibility makes it’s slow. 
 9. Objective-C 
 Objective-C (ObjC) is an object-oriented programming language. It is used by Apple for the OS X and iOS operating systems and their application programming interfaces (APIs). It was developed in the 1980s and came in usage by some of the earliest operating systems. 
 Objective-C is object-oriented, general purpose. You can call it hybrid C because of the features it adds to C programming language. 
 SQL (es-que-el) stands for Structured Query Language, is a programming language to operate databases. It includes storing, manipulating and retrieving data stored in a relational database. 
 SQL keeps data precise and secure, and it also helps in maintaining the integrity of databases, irrespective of its size. 
 SQL is used today across web frameworks and database applications. If you are well versed in SQL, you can have better command over data exploration, and effective decision making. 
 If you are planning to opt database management as your career, first go through C or C++. SQL developers are in great demand and offered high pay scales by reputed organizations. 
 Wrapping up! 
 Since, the software industry changes with every new update or release. “What is the best programming language of the world?” is hard. If you want to start your career as a developer, it is only you who can decide which one is best suited as per your interest in varying fields. 
 Let’s choose: 
 Front-end web development – JavaScript 
 Back-end web development – JavaScript, Python, Java, PHP, Ruby 
 Desktop application – Java, C++, Python 
 Mobile development – Swift, Java, C# 
 Game development – C++, C# 
 Once again, here is the list of top 10 programming languages to start with: 
 JavaScript 
 Python 
 Java 
 C/CPP 
 PHP 
 Swift 
 C# 
 Ruby 
 Objective – C 
 SQL 
 How strong you are agreeing with me, what you feel about these tech trends. Share with your comments! 
 If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article using contribute.geeksforgeeks.org or mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks. 
 Please Improve this article if you find anything incorrect by clicking on the "Improve Article" button below. 
Database Administrator, Database specialist:::Database Administrator, Database specialist Washington, DC - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator, Database specialist Asquala Academy, Afro software & networking - Addis Ababa - September 2011 to April 2016 Database administrator (DBA) with experience, coding, testing and supporting next-generation database solutions in Oracle enterprise and SQL Server environments. Proficient in an assortment of technologies, including, DB2, Access, MS SQL Server, Java, C++, XML, and Windows.? Install and support LANs, WANs, network segments, internet and Internet systems. Install and support LANs, WANs, network segments, internet and Internet systems. Install and maintain network hardware and software. ? Key Projects:? Developed 60+ students GPA and updating reports using T-SQL, with MS Excel and Access.? Education BA Unity university Skills Microsoft office, excel, Powerpoint and basic maintenance (2 years) Awards Certificate June 2017 Sholla Training Center, Silver Spring, MD. Additional Information Introduction to Oracle and DBA Workshops
Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator - Advance Financial LLC Parkville, MD -  A Database administrator with over 4 years' experience supporting agile environments with active development and production support.?  Adept at installation, setup and configuration of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c on Sun Solaris, AIX and Linux platforms.?  Experience in database upgrades, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, space management, database security, cloning, migration and documentation.?  Proficient at performing major Database Release Upgrade (manually as well as using DBUA) along with applying various PSU patches using OPatch for 10g|11g databases.?  Experience in configuring Oracle network, RMAN, Recovery Catalog, and Performance Tuning of database by optimizing SQL scripts and instance. Used AWR report, ADDM advisors, autotrace and execution plans.?  Adept at routine Database Administration tasks including automated installation, creation and replication of databases, management of tablespaces, logs, grants, roles, users, indices.?  Working experience in database cloning, database backup, recovery procedures and security.?  Experience in application Support, SQL Loader, Data pump, Data Guard, Fine Grain Auditing (FGA), performing Flashback, transportable tablespaces.?  Experience in designing and configuring high-availability systems using DATAGUARD with physical standby. Effectively used DATAGUARD BROKER utility.?  Expertise in setting up Data Guard Fail-Over|Switch-Over|Read-Only scenarios.?  Expert at scheduling jobs using CRONTAB and enterprise manager?  In-depth knowledge and understanding of Oracle Database features such as RMAN for backup and recovery, Materialized Views, Export/Import, Data Pump and Data Guard. Working knowledge of Auditing and Database Security. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Advance Financial LLC - September 2015 to Present  Migration, Upgrade, Patch Application, Performance Tuning, Real Application Clusters, Data Guard Administration.?  Installed 11.2.0.4 and upgraded databases from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4?  Working with databases in virtualized environments (VMware) running Linux 6.5.?  Preforms Table refreshes and schema refreshes using Datapump, cloned databases using RMAN duplicate. Database refreshes using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.?  Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.?  Responsible for planning Backup/Restoration Strategy that meets SLA's., scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).?  Creating & Managing Database Structures, Storage Allocations, Table/Index segments, Rollback segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privilege?  Assists with the troubleshooting and resolution of application issues related to defects, failures or performance problems.?  Responsible for the design, development, implementation and maintenance of enterprise database management systems.?  Proficient in Oracle 11g and 12 g Database Administration, Enterprise Manager, Rman, Backup and Recover Database.?  Innovated time- saving, employee data - intake system that automated database update functions, enabling new salary and process -exception information to be automatically populated.?  Consistently monitored alert log files, trace files, user sessions daily, and took appropriate actions to kill inactive? sessions and make systems manipulations based on logs?  Managed Undo Tablespaces, Schema Objects, Redo Logs, Control files and Archive logs?  Developed and tested DBMS disaster recovery concepts for large hospital company's operational database, delivering solution that guaranteed recovery performance and high availability.?  Possesses team- lead qualities that facilitated transfer of knowledge in all database related areas including schema updates, database security changes, performance troubleshooting and monitoring. Database Administrator Aronson LLC - Rockville, MD - June 2014 to July 2015  Supported Oracle developers, performed database tuning, created database reorganization procedures, scripted database alerts, and monitored script.? ?  Performed Complete Media Recovery of database using Rman? ?  Analyzed and monitored tables, indexes based on performance, tablespaces and datafile utilization regularly? ?  Extensively used DATAPUMP and Export/Import utilities for logical backups? ?  Identified and recovered corrupted Database blocks using Block recover option in RMAN utility? ?  Created and rebuilt indexes when necessary; created and tuned various materialized views? ?  Used explain plan, AWR, ADDM and various Oracle Advisors to tune the database? ?  Performed various performance/goal oriented database tuning, instance tuning, memory tuning, query tuning and complete database tuning staff, database administration on production, testing and development of database servers? ?  Resolved various complex issues within the database ; for example; corrupted datafiles, redo log files, tns and listener connection issues, control file and spfile problems? ?  Experience in creating Tablespace, Tables, indexes and other database Objects.? ?  Tables partitions for large tables, Multiplexing control files and Redo log Files. Education Masters of Business Administration in Business Administration University of Maryland University College December 2012 Bachelor of Science in Accounting in Accounting University of Abuja December 2005 Skills Database (2 years), DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (1 year), DBMS (1 year), Oracle (2 years), RMAN (2 years) Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS:? ?  Operating System: Linux, Solaris, AIX, Windows and Mac OS?  DBMS: Oracle 11g, Oracle 12c?  Database Client Tools: Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DBCA Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Log miner, ADDM, AWR, Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Remedy, Citrix, PVCS version manager.?  Software Applications: Microsoft Office Suite including Excel, Access and Outlook, Oracle, PeopleSoft, QuickBooks, Lotus, Reflections, Idea, Laser, Paradox, Andar, AS400 and Blackline.? ? LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE AND EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES:?  UMUC Residential Life Para-professional Staff, Summer 2011?  UMBC Collegiate Entrepreneur Organization, Fall 2010?  UMUC Club Soccer. Fall 2009, 20010
Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator Hartford, CT -  Over 4 years of strong experience in Oracle database administration in heterogeneous system environment including Solaris, UNIX, and Windows, supporting a variety of mission critical applications with Oracle 10g and 11g.?  Expert working knowledge of 12c, 11g, 10g, 9i and 8i databases with the UNIX and Windows operating system.?  Performing complete and incomplete recovery during disasters, failures and user errors.?  Data Guard administration and maintenance.?  Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement. Utilized Log Miner Technology & applied Application Database Transactions on other Databases.?  Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN, Hot and Cold backups.?  Taking the RMAN incremental and cumulative backups.?  Scheduling the databases backup using Cron tab and VERITAS net backup.?  Perform Logical backup using full/partial export/import and data pump.?  Creating Logical and Physical database structure, Creating and altering Tablespaces. Managing Users and Resources, Granting and revoking privileges through Roles.?  Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.?  Deployed Standby databases using Data Guard 11G (Maximum Performance)?  Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch as well as database upgrades?  Installed and maintained Real Application Clusters (RAC)?  Involved in Tuning the RAC interconnect Finding RAC wait events. And Tuning the RAC using the Enterprise Manager Grid Control.?  Performed various tasks on ASM, creating a disk group, adding a disk to disk group, making disk online and offline and troubleshooting issues in ASM environment. Monitored physical I/O and Proper sizing of rollback segments.?  Cloning of production databases as needed for testing, development using RMAN or scripts?  Performed SQL tuning based on report generated by ASH, ADDM, AWR?  Identified and resolved performance issues caused by table fragmentation using segment Advisors?  Troubleshoot and resolved locking and concurrency issues, Excessive parsing, resource bottleneck (including memory and CPU bottlenecks) and recommending a solution?  Supported development teams by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing ETL procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, and TKPROF.?  Experience in configuration and administration of Data Guard (Physical/Logical standby Databases)?  Setup RMAN solutions for all Oracle Databases -- created rman repository, provided best practices, optimizations and data guard and cloning techniques -- restore and recovery.?  Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for switch-over and fail-over purposes.?  Experience in Implementation of High Availability solutions with Oracle 10g &11g RAC, Physical Standby Databases (Data Guard)?  Experience with supporting the Production Database with complete lifecycle including Installations, Upgrade, Patching, Cloning, Backup/Recovery, High Availability including Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) and Data Guard.?  Responsible for the installation, configuration and overall up from [?] to 11gr2 [?] to [?]?  Perform Daily Monitoring of Oracle Instances, monitor users, and table spaces, Memory Structures, Rollback Segments, Logs and Alerts.?  Creation of Users and granting them the required Roles and Privileges accordingly.?  Involvement in space management, managed quotas. Tuning of database using Utlstat scripts Statspack and dynamic performance views to monitor system statistics and wait events, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA.?  Database backup concepts and options such as user-managed backup, RMAN-managed backup with or without catalog, operating system backup, cold and hot backup, full backup, incremental and cumulative backup. Implementing backup and recovery strategies.?  Optimized SQL using explain plan, Auto trace feature and TKPROF to analyze the execution plan and tune the statements. Work Experience Database Administrator CIGNA Health Care Division - Hartford, CT - January 2014 to Present Environment: Oracle 11.2.0.3, 10.2.0.5, RHEL 5.5, Sun Solaris 10.0, DataGaurd, RAC, RMAN, OEM, Datapump, AWR, ADDM, ASH, TOAD 11.0.? Responsibilities:?  Worked in an environment comprising 200 databases with the largest databases each of size 5 TB.?  Performed periodic refreshing/cloning of production databases to development & testing databases using RMAN Duplicate database.?  Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager)?  Experience in handling large databases upto 4TB in size and largest table of size 60GB with 145 million records.?  Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases?  Installation, Configuration of ASM, RAC databases, Adding Services and maintaining GRID control.?  Migrated databases from 9i and 10g to 11g R2 using utilities like export/import, datapump and transportable tablespace.?  Implemented replication on databases using and Golden gate between homogeneous and heterogeneous databases.?  Performed replication between databases using Materialized Views and DB links from a remote database.?  Successfully performed installation, setup and creation of Primary & Standby database using dataguard to deliver no data loss with maximum availability mode.?  Worked closely with application teams for rolling application.?  Performance tuning of Oracle instances?  Monitored data transfer between the Database servers using Data Stage, Oracle Streams/CDC?  Monitoring Day-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement. Utilized LOG MINER Technology & applied Application Database Transactions on other Databases.?  Experience in Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.?  Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (tablespaces, datafiles, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space, in adherence to the Optimal Flex Architecture.?  Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics.?  Cloned schemas, objects and data on new server using exports from 10g database and imported in 11g using data pump.?  Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.?  Involved in performing upgradation from Oracle 9i, 10g to Oracle 11.2.0.3 RAC database.?  Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.?  Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.?  Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH)?  Achieved optimal performance tuning by using explain plan, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, TKPROF utilities.?  Installation, configuration and maintenance of Physical Standby using Oracle Data Guard for Disaster recovery process on Oracle 11g, 10g.?  Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.?  Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.?  Creating database objects Tablespaces, Application Users, Database schemas, profiles, granting privileges and roles, and creating database links. Database Administrator BRIGHT AID PHARMACY - Bronx, NY - March 2011 to December 2013 Environment: Oracle 11g/10g/9i, Linux, Solaris, SQL Developer, PL/SQL, Shell scripting (Bourne), OEM, Statspack, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, Data Pump.? ? Responsibilities:?  Installation of oracle 11g databases in production, development and test environments depending on project requirements.?  Configuration of Listener and Tnsnames.?  Doing the regular activities like monitoring the alert logs, redo log status, listener. Log and checking the space for normal segments, rollback segments and tablespaces.?  Created database link between two databases to access the table data from one local database to remote database using distributed database feature.?  Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization.?  Performed other Oracle DBA responsibilities performance tuning, monitoring tablespaces, monitoring users, etc. as well as much problem solving.?  Designed Logical and physical database for business transaction functionality.?  Provide production support for the deployed project till it is stabilized.?  Collaborated with the UNIX system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database?  Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.?  Making structural changes to the databases. Sizing database objects for effective space management and optimal performance.?  Managing database security.?  Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.?  Defragmentation of tables and indexes for improved performance and effective space management.?  Managed Database Maintenance Activities to achieve optimum database uptime.?  Written SQL scripts to create database objects like tables, views and sequences.?  Created procedures and functions using PL/SQL. Education Bachelor's in management University of Yaounde Additional Information Technical Summary? ? Databases Oracle 11G/10G? ? Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows [?]? Tuning Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.? Languages SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL.? Utilities RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, EXP, IMP, Data pump, , TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer.
Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator New Britain, CT -  3+ years of experience in Oracle Database administrator, having exclusive experience in database administration, installation, configuration and upgrades with Oracle Software 11g/10g on Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, AIX, and Windows Platform.?  Knowledge in GoldenGate Replication?  Converted Physical Standby to Snapshot Standby and to Active Data Guard.?  Knowledge in Exadata.?  Hands on experience on RAC database?  Experience in active duplication of databases using RMAN cloning.?  Incomplete recovery and disaster recovery using Standby database or Data Guard by implementing RMAN backup.?  Extensively used Database Administrative tools like Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*PLUS, TOAD 12.1?  Experience in designing, implementing and supporting highly available RAC clusters for companywide single sign on application, as well as other database solutions using advanced replication and standby (data guard) options.?  Setup and installed Oracle 11gR1 2, 10g RAC software with ASM & OCFS2 File systems.?  Performance tuning of the database using 11g new features - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM, SPA and Tuning of SGA, Distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes.?  Experience with SQL, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, triggers, cursors, functions, packages, UNIX Shell Scripting, Indexes, Logical and Physical database design to implement the business logic.?  Handled operational responsibilities like database refreshes/copy backs, security, documenting standards and procedures, data migration, data clean-up, data archiving, etc.?  Good co-ordination and communication with system administrators, business data analysts and development teams. Work Experience Database Administrator Polaris - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh - July 2012 to June 2014 Hyderabad, India?  Database monitoring and performance tuning using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).?  Backup of Database (Making Backup Schedules depending upon Business Strategy: Daily Backup, weekly Backup etc.).?  Configuration and Maintenance of oracle 11g RAC, Standby database.?  Database upgrades and migrations from 9i to 10g/11g database versions.?  Application Tuning by tuning queries, identifying problematic code, creation of indexes, re-writing queries using an optimized path.?  Monitored the various database activities such as backup, error logs, space, object, performance, user and session monitoring to ensure proper capacity and availability.?  Involved in Creating and Managing Table spaces with different block-sizes to prevent row chaining.?  Performed day-to-day database administration tasks like Table space usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.?  Analysis and management of Oracle problems/defects using SRs and/or Metalink with Oracle?  Write and modify UNIX shell scripts to manage Oracle environment.?  24x7 production support for several critical systems which utilize multiple Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g databases.?  Export and import of database objects using Data pump utilities EXPDP and IMPDP.?  Cloning databases using scripts as well as RMAN.?  Implemented Database Security, Management of role-based security.? ? Environment: Oracle 11g, 10g with RAC and ASM, SQL, PL/SQL, CRONTAB, Erwin, O/S: RHEL 4.2, OEM, RMAN, Export/Import, ASM Packages. Database Administrator Swarna Bharathi Institute of Technology - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh - August 2011 to May 2012 Hyderabad, India?  Developed backup and recovery strategies, batch processing, performance monitoring, log maintenance and automating functions wherever possible.?  Maintained database security by managing users roles, privileges. Implemented new security rules via roles as per the company policies.?  Daily incremental backup and weekly full backup of databases using RMAN.?  Loaded data into database tables using SQL *Loader.? ? Environment: PL/SQL, Oracle 10g, TOAD, SQL PLUS, PL/SQL Developer. Education Masters of Science in Computer Science and Engineering Central Connecticut State University - New Britain, CT 2014 to 2016 Bachelors of Science in Computer Science and Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 2008 to 2012 Skills DATABASE (2 years), ORACLE (2 years), PL/SQL (2 years), RMAN (2 years), SQL (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills? Languages SQL  PL/SQL  C  C++  UNIX Shell Scripting? Database Oracle 11g/RAC  Oracle 10g/RAC  Oracle 9i  Microsoft SQL Server? Tools RAC  OEM Grid Control  SQL *Loader  ASM  SQL Server  Export/Import  Patch Management  SQLNET  ODBC  RMAN  TOAD  Data pump  Data Guard  VMware  CronTab? Tuning Tools TKPROF  EXPLAIN PLAN  STATSPACK  ADDM  AWR  ASH & ADDM.? Terminal Emulation Toad  Putty  Telnet  FTP  PL/SQL
Database Analyst;DATABASE ANALYST:::Database Analyst SQL Database Analyst Schaumburg, IL - Detail-oriented programmer/database analyst with extensive project management, object-oriented programming, and troubleshooting experience. Consistently solves complex problems and builds successful results. Delivers absolute on time with QA/data accuracy. ? ? Performs proficiently in team environment as well as independently. Has a sharp aptitude for designing, coding, testing, implementing, maintaining complex programs/systems, and problem-solving. Ability to handle multi-task simultaneously in fast paced environment.? ? Exceptional career history highlighted by success in optimizing business outcomes through communication, process improvement, and execution. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Analyst Experian - Schaumburg, IL - September 2016 to Present VOLUNTEER? Provide job search strategies and resources for those in career transition, with emphasis on resume and interviewing skills. DATABASE ANALYST EXPERIAN - Schaumburg, IL - 2000 to 2013 DEVELOPER? GOGO, Itasca, IL 2014? Responsible for the process/business rule driven reports and tools to support functions in the revenue accounting organization to improve ability of department to maximize revenue.? Developed reports and tools to a predefined specification, produce all supporting documentations.? Assisted in technical software design activities and in the specification of software solutions in an Agile environment.? Performed the tasks of coding, unit test and integration tests as defined within the software development guidelines to an acceptable level of quality.? ? Supported Mainframe / Relational Database business and consumer clients, including a Fortune 100 global retailer.? Consistently received high performance evaluation scores from management and team members on attitude and quality of performance.? Advised on options, impact on business processes, system priorities to other software developers, customers, and other impacted parties and business units resulting in collaboratively developed software in cross-functional teams.? Translated customer requirements specifications, recommended system solutions, and formulated detailed specifications from which programs were written.? Assisted in research projects and ad hoc projects.? Served as information technology subject matter expert, resolving critical and complex issues, and meeting customer needs by providing guidance and technical support to customer service reps / project managers.? Designed and implemented test plans, programs and tools utilizing detailed business requirements.? Implemented technical solutions using Sync sort according to the business Rules.? Enhanced existing database systems, emphasizing processing efficiencies that led to cost cutting and reduced scheduling time by 20 - 40%.? Analyzed/Verified input data quality, including identification and communication of flat file and CVS file variances and potential issues.? Managed time effectively to ensure updates and ad hoc projects were delivered on schedule.? Collaborated and participated with other developers, project managers and database administrators to design, develop, test QA and deploy new database systems.? Investigated existing processes and applied proficiencies that reduced CPU run time by 30%.? Decreased labor overtime by 25% and increased efficiencies of updates by reorganizing and modifying/recoding programs.? Documented work plans to train new team members. Led and trained off-shore team of three prepared them to ensure a smooth transition of responsibility during my depart process on relational database, as well as other detailed projects. Education 1Z0-047 Oracle Database SQL Expert Cetificate in Oracle SQL and PL/SQL Oracle September 2016 AAS in Computer Information System Harper College - Palatine, IL 2013 Skills Microsoft Office (2 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/manivanhchipongsay Certifications/Licenses Oracle SQL Expert October 2016 Additional Information COMPETENCIES? Analysis? Communication? Customer Interface? Database design? Data Warehouse? Detail Oriented? GUI? Flat File and CVS? Problem-solving? Programming? Project Management? Relational Databases? ? CERTIFIED? 1Z0-047 Oracle Database SQL Expert 2016? 1Z0-051 Oracle Database 11g: SQL Fundamentals I 2016? TECHNICAL SKILLS? Environments - Linux, Mainframe IBM MVS/JCL, and TSO.? Proficient in COBOL, Assembly, Sync sort, DB3quest, and Direct Data.? Knowledge software design and development database technologies of .NET/C#, complex SQL join; Oracle 11g PL/SQL - store procedure, packages, functions, triggers, indexes, and views; object oriented programming language, J2EE, Java, JavaScript, HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, JSF, JDBC, Servlets, Spring, Struts, Eclipse, NetBeans; SOAP, RUP; Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Office -Word, Access, Excel, and PowerPoint.
Database Architect;Database Administrator:::Database Architect Database Architect - CSID, A part of Experian Austin, TX -  8+ years of experience as Database (MySql, Oracle) Administrator, Developer, Data-warehouse architect?  8+ years of experience with developing ETL scripts using different tools (Python, DataStage, shell scripts)?  7+ years of experience on administering and building and supporting reporting platforms like: Business Objects, MicroStrategy, YellowFin and Excel?  Continuously work with Developers, QA, Analysts & Product for better throughput & faster rollout of features?  Team lead for two teams at VideoMining; Database and MicroStrategy Online Portal?  Optimizing sql/pl-sqls, database designs for better and faster throughputs and scalability Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Architect CSID, A part of Experian - May 2013 to Present CSID is the leading provider of global enterprise level identity protection and fraud detection technology. They help businesses identify about identity theft and help with identity restoration services too.? Roles? Database Architect/Administrator?  As a member of Infrastructure team at CSID, primary responsibility is administration of MySql servers, which includes upgrading to current MySql releases, tightening security holes, disaster recovery, solutions for performance bottlenecks?  Built tools to administer and monitor application and database health?  Actively working with product development and developers to help build and optimize code base?  Maintain PCI compliance and help with auditing our servers as and when needed?  Got our database servers onto latest version of MySql and got contingency plans in place for ease of restoration?  Helping Support and QA teams with any data related issues and help maintain service availability? ? Reporting Administrator & Developer?  Configure and maintain Business Objects & YellowFin for usage by teams within CSID for billing?  Built reports to help teams track current usage of services and client requirement fulfillment?  Built a python based ETL framework for maintaining Data marts and tracking data changes? ? Major Accomplishments:? CSID had a lot of Database performance tuning debt, as they have not had a database administrator for last 5-6 years. Below is short summary of some big hurdles that I helped them overcome:?  Built tools to profile/track a member through 7+ TB databases?  Tightening & closing security holes on database for avoiding malicious activities?  Disaster recovery of production database (2T plus) within hours, without losing any data?  Handled on boarding for about million members and had to do few table optimizations to avoid disruption of services on the launch days?  Building tools (python based) for copying test data and ad-hoc report building to save man hours?  Building reports with data growth in mind and adjusting?  Educate teams about importance of optimized structure and correct SQL's with throughput benchmarking tests?  Optimizing database structure for better storage and better throughput Database Administrator VideoMining Corporation - November 2009 to April 2013 VideoMining helps retailers and CPG companies to get real time insights into behavioral pattern of shoppers in retail stores using vision (camera) and point of sale data.? Roles? Database Administrator & Developer?  Installed & Managed RDBMS servers collecting vision data from 2000 plus cameras over 16 retailers (40 plus stores) and over 120 stores transactional/point of sale (POS) data every day?  Administrated servers with billion DML's (write/delete/update) an year traffic?  Altered MySQL tables to use different engines as per need?  Major Accomplishment: Reduced execution time for a process from 12+ hours to 20-30 minutes by altering sqls and data warehousing schemes?  Developed in-house database backup utility for hot and cold backup? ? Data Warehouse, Architect & Developer?  For ETL purpose, architected customized data warehouse schemes for 16 retailers using Star or SnowFlake Schemas. Each retailer being different, normalization or de-normalization was performed?  Built Compliance Monitoring System (Project Name: CMS) backend to help maintain timely image snapshots from cameras in store, helping clients identify shelf stocking behavior for their products? ? Python Developer?  Majority of Python Development is focused on ETL work for Point Of Sale (POS) data, processing a million (minimum) data points daily?  Standardized POS to avoid redundant development (Project Name: PyPOS) and used YAML to optimize data generation and speed was increased by using multiprocessing and multi-threading?  Automated data model building for Business team and managed project Process Monitor which helped them deliver project status to clients using MicroStrategy reportsta integrity before delivery?  Used Mercurial for source code management? ? MicroStrategy Administrator, Designer & Data Analyst?  Designed web based accessible graphical reports for clients using MicroStrategy?  MySql isn't supported completely, so used freeform reports (sql based), for faster performance & tweaked sqls to build dynamic reports (a feature not supported by MicroStrategy officially)?  As Administrator and Architect, performed updates for MicroStrategy software and maintained meta data consistency?  Analyzed data displayed by reports & altered graphs for effective and easy data interpretation Education Master of Science in Information Technology and Management Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL May 2009 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics Communication & Telecommunication in Electronics Communication & Telecommunication Nagpur University - Nagpur, Maharashtra May 2006
Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator - Kaiser Permanent Ashburn, VA - U.S Citizen, Available to relocate nationwide, Microsoft Certified SQL Server Database Administrator over 5 years of experience in difference version [?] of SQL Server in Health Care, Investment Banking and Education industries is seeking SQL Server DBA position. Experience entails different aspects of SQL Server Database Administration including Installation, Backup, DR & HA Solution, Performance Tuning, Maintenance Plan, Automation Jobs, Security, Data Modeling, SSRS, SSIS for different SQL Server version on different Operating Systems. Well-versed in using third-party database management tools, as well as various database objects such as stored procedures, triggers, functions, Index, constraints and views etc. Recognized for solid work ethic, technical acumen, and ability to manage multiple priorities within diverse Work Experience Database Administrator Kaiser Permanent - Springfield, VA - June 2015 to Present  Install, Configure, and Manage SQL Server 2005, 2008 R2, 2012?  Implement 2014 in Test environments?  Apply Service Packs/Hot Fixes on SQL Server?  Upgrade from SQL Server 2008R2 to SQL Server 2012 and 2014?  Migrate MS Access, Oracle 10g, MySQL 5.1.23 RDBMS into MS SQL Server?  Document the process of installation, apply service packs, upgrade and migration step?  Experience in Disaster recovery through backup/restore, point-in-time recovery?  Refresh Database as needed?  Configure and maintain HA options (Log shipping, mirroring, replication, clustering, Always On)?  Schedule jobs and create alerts as needed?  Create Server logins, database users, and implement Transparent Database Encryption (TDE).?  Configure Tempdb for better performance?  Configure Table Partitions to improve I/O access and performance?  Data compression and Shrink database as needed?  Monitor (Memory, CPU, Disk Utilization, I/O, Blocks, Deadlocks, Fragmentation, Long running query) to optimize database performance?  Rebuild, reorganize Index and update statistics at regular intervals?  Use DBCC and DMV to check database condition and consistency?  Experience in creating and modifying Indexes (Cluster/Non-Cluster), Constraints (Unique/Check) and Views?  Assist Database Developers to Optimize SQL queries and Stores Procedures.?  Write Ad hoc Transact-SQL scripts for reporting and maintenance?  Execute PowerShell Script to maintain the server and database?  Generate Ad-hoc Reports, Manage Reports Security, and deploy reports using SSRS?  Create Ad hoc package, configure different level of security and deploy package using SSIS?  Resolve issues reported by customers?  Administrate SharePoint? Environment: Microsoft Windows Cluster Server, Windows Server, XML, SQL Server Management Studio, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, Performance Monitor, SSRS, SSIS, MS Visio Database Administrator CitiGroup - Long Island City, NY - June 2013 to May 2015  Strong knowledge and working experience in Database Backup and Disaster Recovery?  Installed, Configured and Managed SQL Server in Development, Test and Production environments?  Implemented and Maintained High Availability solutions, including Log Shipping, Mirroring, Replication and Clustering?  Developed, Deployed and Managed Reports using SQL Server Reporting Services?  Installed, Configured and Maintained SSIS for ETL processes and configured different levels of security in SSIS packages?  Upgraded SQL Server 2005 to 2008R2 and SQL server 2008R2 to 2012?  Database Migration from Oracle to SQL Server?  Applied Service Packs and Hot Fixes on SQL Server?  Setup automation jobs for different tasks such as monitor database health, disk space, backup verification, index monitoring and statistic monitoring?  Monitored Server Activity, Error Logs, space usage and solving problems as needed?  Created database Logins and Assign permissions to user roles, objects and Support column level permissions?  Imported data from multiple sources such as Flat file, CSV file, Oracle, My-SQL?  Used DBCCs to check database conditions and database Maintenance?  Highly experienced in writing and managing T-SQL codes and Stored-Procedure as well as creating and modifying tables, indexes, Constraints, View? Environment: SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2005 with clustering, T-SQL, Windows Server 2003R2/2008R2, DTS, Oracle, DTS, Excel, Access and IIS Database Administrator Department of Education - Washington, DC - November 2010 to April 2013  Installed, Configured and Managed SQL Server 2008R2, 2005?  Working experience in Database Backup and disaster recovery?  Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Clustering, database Mirroring?  Maintained Snapshot and Transaction Replication?  Migrated Oracle database and MY-SQL database to SQL Server2008r2?  Implemented Upgrade SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008R2?  Applied Service Pack/Fixes on SQL Server 2005 and 2008R2?  Practical work experience on Conceptual, Logical and Physical Data Model?  Maintained Logins, Roles, Authentication, Security polices and permissions to users?  Scheduled jobs to automate different task.?  Developed Maintenance Plans such as backup and restoration solutions, index management, fragmentation management, cleaning history, deleting old files?  Created and managed Index, Constraints keys (PK, FK)?  Monitored Server Activity, Error Logs, space usage and solving problems as needed?  Administered SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)?  Developed Ad-hoc Reports using Report Builder 3.0, 2.0?  Exported & Imported data from Flat file, CSV file to/from SQL Server Database using DTS, SSIS? Environment: SQL Server 2008R2/2005 SSIS, SSRS, T-SQL Education Masters in Economics University of Dhaka Additional Information Technical Skills? ? Operating System Windows Server 2012, 2008r2, 2003? Database Administration SQL Server [?] MS Access 2007 and 2003? Database Migration Oracle (10gr2, 11gr2)/ My-SQL [?] databases to SQL Server? ETL Tools SSIS/DTS? Performance Tuning Tools Query Execution Plan, Profiler, Database Tuning Advisor, Activity Monitor, Perfmon, SQL Server/Agent Error Log? Reporting/Analysis Tools SSRS, Crystal Report? Data Modeling Tools Erwin, VISIO, Toad Data Modeler? Scripting Tools PowerShell, Query Analyzer? Programming Languages Worked in C#, Java, ASP.NET, HTML and XML Environment? Networking Related Expertise? Managing User accounts using Active Directory, Implementation of TCP/IP, Configured workstations for IP based LAN TCP/IP, DNS, SMTP, and HTTP, Configured IIS 7.5
Database Design Engineer;Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Database Design Engineer Database Design Engineer - ADP Dallas, TX -  9+ years of experience as an Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g, 12c), MongoDB and SQLServer (2005, 2008, 2012, 2014) Database administrator in Production, Development and R&D environments.?  Designing and Implementing High availability and Disaster recovery solutions to various customers in MongoDB, Oracle and SQLServer.?  Experience with MongoDB, replicate, shards, distributed database.?  Profound experience in performance tuning and provided tuning suggestion for many mission critical Online Transaction processing systems and improved overall response time.?  Experience in troubleshooting locking issues, wait events, hang analysis.?  Profound Experience in Installing, configuring and administrating MongoDB, Exadata, Golden Gate, RAC, DataGuard, SQLServer Clustering, Always on, log shipping and mirroring.?  Excellent understanding in MongoDB architecture and NoSQL concepts.?  Good understanding of key Exadata features including Exadata smart scan, Smart Flash Cache, Exadata Storage Index, Hybrid Columnar Compression and Exadata Storage Management & Administration.?  Profound experience in Real Application Testing?  Designing and implementing databases on VMware's and different OS flavors like Linux, AIX, Solaris, hp-unix etc.?  Good Knowledge on data modeling and ERD.?  Good knowledge in SQL, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting and Perl scripting.?  Supported for 24X7 Production environments on-call standby.?  Experience in backup and recovery techniques on Mongo, Oracle and SQLServer databases.?  Experience in handling up-gradations and Migrations of standalone, MSSQL and RAC Databases.?  Hands on experience in database patches installation, database security, capacity management, cloning databases.?  Profound experience in monitoring and Administrating RAC, Exadata, DR, SQLServer, Single tenant and Multi-tenant databases 12c.?  Proficiency in Oracle Grid Control, OEM 11g/12c?  Handling Data Guard Switch over and Failover in oracle and mirroring in SQL server scenarios.?  Providing oracle trainings and write scripts to Automate the Jobs. Work Experience Database Design Engineer ADP - Dallas, TX - August 2015 to Present Responsibilities:?  Primarily responsible for handling 300+ standalone databases of medium scale, 20+ DR environments, 20+ mongodb environments, 3 Golden Gate and 15+ RAC environments with DB size of 10TB to 19 TB.?  Preparing design document for ADP products - vantage, Siebel and iproducts - to migrate and upgrade database from legacy to new servers.?  Coordinating with different teams -Dev, QA, TAM, IE, hosting, Architects- and testing the changes before implementing any new changes on prod.?  Configuring active Dataguard as per business needs.?  Installing and configuring, migrating and upgrading oracle 11gr2, 12c and golden gate software's.?  Providing L3 support to vantage, Siebel CRM, UCM and iproducts.?  Performing performance tests on IPE environments.?  Configuring goldengate environments.?  Configuring and Monitoring database using OEM12c.?  Preparing implementation steps for all projects and providing IE team to follow the document.?  Configuring MongoDB environments with replication and sharding.?  Monitoring and taking backups of mongoDB environment using mongoDB Ops manager.?  Configuring bidirectional Goldengate setup for iproducts.? ? Environment: Linux, Aix, Solaris, OEM12c, MongoDB (3.0, 3.2), Oracle 11gR2, 12c, Golden gate. Database Administrator AITS, BOEING, Memorial Hermann, Century - New York, NY - March 2012 to July 2015 New York? ? Responsibilities:?  Primary Responsible for handling 200+ databases both medium and large scale in which there are 44+ DR servers, 9+ RAC environments, 10+ sqlserver clustered environments, 4 Exadata environments, 4 Golden Gate, 50+ SQL servers and 70+ Oracle databases.?  Responsible as a lead for a team of 10 database administrators.?  Responsible for physical database design both single and multitenant, implementation and maintenance.?  Oracle spatial installation/re-installation and troubleshooting spatial components for 9i and 10g databases.?  De-sinstalling spatial components.?  Creating spatial tables and indexes.?  Installing and configuring MongoDB replicate and shards.?  Monitoring MongoDB servers using MMS.?  Taking backups and restoring using mongodump and mongorestore utility.?  Troubleshooting critical issues in oracle, MongoDB and sqlserver databases.?  Creating and configuring PDB's in 12c multitenant databases?  Handling Performance issues in oracle, MongoDB and SQLServer.?  Writing PL/SQL programs and scheduling jobs.?  Monitoring Exadata server using OEM.?  Installation and configuration of golden gate environments for both single and bi-direction.?  Zero-down time cross platform migration from 10.2.0.4 on AIX to 11.2.o.3 on Linux.?  Trouble shooting golden gate issues.?  Monitoring Golden gate environments.?  Using SSIS too for loading data from OLTP to OLAP environments.?  Performing data modeling tests on OLTP and Data warehouse, data marts using Erwin tool.?  Handling SQLServer clustering databases, Always on, configuring Log shipping, mirroring.?  Database Migration / Up gradation from 10g, 11g, 12c and SQLServer 2008/2012.?  Up gradation of RAC from 11.2.0.3 to 12.1.0.1.?  Performing Real Application Testing using SQL performance analyzer and Database replay.?  Migrating database From NON-ASM to ASM disk.?  Oracle Server & Client Installation on Linux/AIX/hp-UX and windows environments.?  Installed & Configured RAC with ASM in 11.2.0.3 Version.?  Applied Opatch in Development, Testing & Production Environment.?  Install EM agent and configure DB/Cluster instances in OEM 12c.?  Installed OMS & Web logic to configure GRID Console 11g R2.?  Creating ASM Disk & Disk groups and Maintaining Oracle ASM instance.?  Added Disk and REBALANCED.?  Perform logical backups (using Export/Import or expdp/impdp utilities)?  Configuring new databases and users: set up backups, export, and other monitoring Scripts.?  Cloning an Oracle Database in Test environment from Production database.?  Configuring & Managing Shell Scripts like Monitoring scripts (Alert log, Instance check, High Load etc) & Backup scripts from remote server.?  Taken COLD & HOT Backup using RMAN & Manual method.?  Doing Recovery using RMAN & Manual method.?  Wrote UNIX shell scripts for database administration, backup and performance monitoring.?  Check Alert Log errors and make necessary actions to rectify them.?  Controlling and monitoring of user access to the database including Granting and revoking of privileges and roles and table space quotas.? ? Environment: Linux, Aix, HP-UX, solaris, windows, MongoDB (2.4, 2.6, 3.0), Oracle 11gR2, 12c and SQL server 2012. Database Administrator AITS, BOEING, Memorial Hermann, Century - July 2008 to February 2012 India? ? Responsibilities:?  Handled databases of various sizes running from 500GB to 5 TB of both Oracle and SqlServer databases.?  Was involved in Core DBA activities for around 72 Databases comprising of both production and non-production databases.?  Configure and monitor MongoDB instances.?  Taking backups and restoring using MongoDB tools.?  Performing switchover for every 3months to test physical standby.?  Installing and configuring Oracle and SqlServer databases.?  Installing RAC software and adding nodes to RAC.?  Tuning Performance issues, pulling AWR, ADDM, ASH report and identifying issues.?  Database administration, managing tablespaces and DB objects.?  Creation of oracle users, roles, granting privileges and profiles etc.?  Enable monitoring scripts (like Alert log, Instance check, High Load etc)?  Check Alert Log errors and make necessary actions to rectify them.?  Preparing UNIX shell scripts for database administration and backup.?  Experience in replicating using data guard.?  Data Refresh from Prod to test database.?  Perform logical backups (using Export/Import or expdp/impdp utilities)?  Manage existing Shell scripts used for monitoring the databases?  Scheduled backups (like Expdp, RMAN, SQLSERVER backups, Archive log)?  Taking DR server reports via STATSPACK.?  Analyze SQL statements using Explain Plan, DBMS_XPLAN.?  Oracle upgrading from version 10g to version 11g.?  Configured log shipping and monitoring.?  Applying patches?  Controlling and monitoring of user access to the database including Granting and revoking of privileges and roles and table space quotas.?  Routine DBA duties like analyzing schema's, monitoring database growth.?  Managing redo logs, checking alert log and trace files for database performance.?  Taking RMAN backups, installing oracle software, creating databases, Dropping Database.?  Restoring Backups, Cloning database.?  Configuring and Troubleshooting Listener related issues.?  Configuring and Monitoring Physical Standby.?  Used tools like SQL Server profiler, Performance Monitor to identify bottlenecks.?  Using OEM to monitor the database.?  Troubleshooting performance related issues.?  Creating users, indexes, monitoring tablespaces.?  Scheduling Cronjobs, inittab, increasing space in filesystems, UNIX administration.?  Also Administrating AIX, hp-unix, Linux, Solaris OS.? ? Environment: Linux, windows, Aix, MongoDB, Oracle (9i, 10g, 11GR2), SQL server 2008 and 2008 R2. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:?  Databases: Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c, Exadata and Sqlserver [?]?  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell scripting and Perl Scripting.?  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, AIX and Hp-Unix.?  Database Tools Mongodump, Mongorestore, PL/SQL Developer, SSMS, TOAD, OEM grid & Cloud control, MongoDB MMS RMAN, IMPDP/EXPDP and Erwin.?  Disaster Recover: Oracle Dataguard, Golden Gate, replications, log shipping and Mirroring.?  High Availability: Oracle Real-Application cluster, Sharding, SQL server Cluster and Always on.?  Performance tools: OEM 12c, TOAD, AWR, ADDM, ASH reports, mongostat, mongotop, OSWATCHER, SQLT, Oradebug, SQL server Profiler, Stats pack report and TKPROOF utility.
Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Database Administrator DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Bristow, VA - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Med America Billing inc - Modesto, CA - April 2016 to Present April 2016 - Present? ? Key Responsibilities:?  Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2016, 2012, 2008 R2 in development, test, and production environment?  Installed and Configured SQL Server 2008, 2012, 2016 for testing different features and stability? Database High Availability:?  Installed, Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Clustering using SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012.?  Installed, Configured and Maintained Database Mirroring using automatic fail-over option in SQL Server 2012 and 2008?  Configured Log Shipping as Standby database from Production database for Reporting purposes?  Configured and Maintained Replications (Transactional)? Report Development:?  Installed, Configured, and administered SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)?  Developed Reports using SSRS?  Deployed Reports?  Developed Ad-hoc Reports using Report Builder 3.0, 2.0? Database Upgraded (development, testing and production environment):?  SQL Server 2000 to 2008 R2, and 2012 Database Administrator Tech guru USA - Alexandria, VA - March 2012 to December 2016 Education Master's in Statistics Stockholm university Skills Database Administration (4 years), MS SQL Server (4 years) Certifications/Licenses MCITP  MCITP (Microsoft Certified IT Professional) ? Database Admin - 2008 R2 Additional Information General Skills:? ?  Ability to adapt to changing environments?  Excellent team player and quick learner?  Excellent in Technical Support?  Excellent in working non-technical or Business Analysis? ? Database Management:?  Strong knowledge and working experiences as Database Administrator of MS SQL Server (7.0 & 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008R2, 2012 & 2016)?  Strong work experience and knowledge with SQL Server Standby/Replication, Log shipping, Performance tuning, Backup/recovery, Query Optimization and Security Management? ? Data Modeling:?  Worked multiple projects in Database - Conceptual, Logical, and Physical Data Model?  Tools used ERWin and SQL Server Database Diagrams? ? SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)?  Installation, Configuration, and Management?  Developed, Deployed, and Managed Reports? ? Operating Systems:?  Good knowledge and working experience on Operating Systems (O/S) - Windows Server [?] R2, 2003, and 2000 Advanced Sever? Monitoring:?  IDERA, Solar wind.? VMware - Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server VMware Environment?  Active Directory? ? Programming:?  T-SQL, Store Procedures, Trigger, basic idea about .NET and ASP.NET
Database Consultant;Sr. Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Database Consultant Database Consultant - Ford Motor Company Farmington Hills, MI -  Expertise in Installed and configured various versions of SQL Servers like 2005, [?] 2012, 2014 and 2016, applied service packs and security fix.?  Expert in Upgrade and migrate SQL server databases from SQL Server [?] to SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2014, 2016.Having good experience in Cross DB Migrations like Oracle to MSSQL and SYBASE to MSSQL using SSMA. Configured DR Servers from one Data Center to another Data Center.?  Good experience in setting up and configured VLDB systems like 2+ Terabytes of Databases running with best performance. Working with 1000 plus High Critical Production boxes.?  Strong experience in Database Backup, Restore and Recovery procedures through TDP, TSM, SQL Safe and SSMS. Day-to-day activities like Reports monitoring, Handling Tickets, and Documentation.?  Proficient with SQL Server tools, including SSMS, Query Analyzer, SSCM, DTA, Profiler, DMVs, SQL Server Agent, DTS and SSIS.?  Expert in troubleshooting SQL Server related CPU, memory, I/O issues using perfmon.?  Experience in troubleshooting database integrity issues, performance issues, blocking and deadlocking issues.?  Expert in setting up SQL Server high availability features like ALWAYS ON, Clustering(Active/Active and Active/Passive) and Mirroring, DR Solutions like Replication and Log Shipping, Combination of both HA and DR features for 24/7 production environment.?  Developed reports using SSRS on SQL Server [?] Experience and understanding of SSAS, OLAP cube and Architecture.?  Experience in writing expressions in SSRS and Expert in fine tuning the reports. Created many Drill through and Drill Down reports using SSRS.?  Experience in SQL Server DTS and SSIS (Integration Service) package design, constructing, and deployment.?  Solid experience in creating numerous simple to complex queries involving self-joins, correlated sub-queries, functions, and cursors, table variables, merge statements and dynamic T-SQL.?  Extensive experience in Query Optimization, developed and Tuning of Stored Procedures and Performance Tuning.?  Worked on database features like Table Partition, Contained Database, Resource Governor, ColumnstoreIndex, Policy-Based Management etc.,?  Good experience with MSSQL on virtual platforms such as VMware, Hyper-V.?  Developed scripts to ensure e-mails sent to respective people on Failure/Success, error handling of different processes.?  Successful in meeting new technical challenges and finding solutions to meet the need of customers.?  Mentored and trained resources to perform at high level.?  Managed and delivered large and complex assignments within time/cost and service level parameters.?  My interpersonal and soft skills are Leadership * Team Player * Strong Communicator * Technical Skills * Domain Knowledge * Time Management * Analytical Problem Solver. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Consultant Ford Motor Company - June 2016 to Present Ford is the second-largest U.S.-based automaker and the fifth-largest in the world based on 2010 vehicle sales. At the end of 2010, Ford was the fifth largest automaker in Europe. Ford is the eighth-ranked overall American-based company in the 2010 Fortune 500 list, based on global revenues in 2009 of $118.3 billion. In 2008; Ford produced 5.532 million automobiles and employed about 213,000 employees at around 90 plants and facilities worldwide.? ? Responsibilities:? ? Day-to-day activities like requirements gathering from various project teams and Architect the Database solutions according to their projects.? ? Responsible to improve the Build the SQL Database Servers and improve the performance of SQL servers.? ? Troubleshoot performance-tuning issues both at Query Tuning & Database Tuning.? ? Installation and Migration of MS SQL 2005, 2008, 2012 and 2014 Enterprise servers on production, Test and Development boxes.? ? Expert in troubleshooting SQL Server related CPU, memory, I/O issues using perfmon.? ? Experience in troubleshooting database integrity issues, performance issues, blocking and deadlocking issues.? ? Proficient with SQL Server tools, including SSMS, Query Analyzer, SSCM, DTA, Profiler, DMVs, SQL Server Agent, DTS and SSIS.? ? Expert in troubleshooting SQL Server related CPU, memory, I/O issues using perfmon.? ? Experience in troubleshooting database integrity issues, performance issues, blocking and deadlocking issues.? ? Expert in setting up SQL Server high availability features like ALWAYS ON, Clustering(Active/Active and Active/Passive) and Mirroring, DR Solutions like Replication and Log Shipping, Combination of both HA and DR features for 24/7 production environment.? ? Resolved Issues In Backup, Log Shipping, Mirroring and Replication.? ? Setup Transaction and Snapshot Replication and maintain the servers.? ? Created drill down reports and sub reports using SSRS.? ? Monitored Performance using execution plans and improved using Index tuning.? ? Environment: MS SQL Server 2005 to 2016, MSBI, T-SQL, Power Shell, AWS, MongoDB 2.6, Windows Server and Linux. Sr. Database Administrator Travelers Insurance - June 2014 to February 2016 More than 160 years after founding, Travelers is one of the nation's largest property casualty companies. A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, Travelers has more than 30,000 employees, 13,000 independent agents and multiple market segments across the personal, business, financial and international insurance groups. Travelers have operations in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Lloyd's of London, and the Republic of Ireland. In Brazil, the company also has a joint venture partnership with JMalucelli, Brazil's market leader in surety.? ? Responsibilities:? ? Day-to-day activities like requirements gathering from various project teams and Architect the Database solutions according to their projects.? ? Responsible to improve the Build the SQL Database Servers and improve the performance of SQL servers.? ? Proficient with SQL Server tools, including SSMS, Query Analyzer, SSCM, DTA, Profiler, DMVs, SQL Server Agent, DTS and SSIS. Research, evaluate and recommend the suitable database solutions for the project teams.? ? Work closely with development teams in designing and validating NoSQL solutions for the suitable applications.? ? Configured and Working Experience in New Technology ALWAYS ON and clustering.? ? Troubleshoot performance-tuning issues both at Query Tuning & Database Tuning.? ? Installation and Migration of MS SQL 2000, 2005, 2008, 2012 and 2014 Enterprise servers on production, Test and Development boxes.? ? Expertise in T-SQL (DDL, DML and DCL) and normalization of the database tables.? ? Expert in troubleshooting SQL Server related CPU, memory, I/O issues using perfmon.? ? Experience in troubleshooting database integrity issues, performance issues, blocking and deadlocking issues.? ? Expert in setting up SQL Server high availability features like ALWAYS ON, Clustering(Active/Active and Active/Passive) and Mirroring, DR Solutions like Replication and Log Shipping, Combination of both HA and DR features for 24/7 production environment.? ? Resolved Issues In Log Shipping, Mirroring and Replication.? ? Setup Transaction and Snapshot Replication and maintain the servers.? ? Created drill down reports and sub reports using SSRS.? ? Monitored Performance using execution plans and improved using Index tuning.? ? Environment: MS SQL Server 2005 to 2014, MSBI, T-SQL, Power Shell, Windows Server and Linux. Database Administrator BioMerieux, Inc - May 2011 to May 2014 The company specializes in the field of in vitro diagnostics for the medical and industrial sectors. The group designs, develops, and produces a wide range of diagnosis systems for medicine and industry. It provides diagnostic solutions (reagents, instruments, software) which determine the source of disease and contamination to improve patient health and ensure consumer safety. Their products are used for diagnosing infectious diseases and providing medical test results for cardiovascular emergencies and cancer screening and monitoring. They are also used for detecting microorganisms in Agri-food, pharmaceutical and cosmetic products.? ? Responsibilities:? ? Troubleshoot performance tuning issues both at Query Tuning & Database Tuning.? ? Installation of MS SQL 2008 R2 and 2012 Enterprise servers on production, Test and Development boxes? ? Installation of MongoDB in different Operating System. Manage and maintain MongoDB servers across multiple environments.? ? Day-to-day activities like backup (or schedule the backups daily for database and transaction log) on disk and restore the databases and transaction log on production/development servers as per requirement.? ? Worked on database features like Table Partition, ContainedDatabase, Columnstore Index, Resource Governor, Policy-Based Management etc.,? ? Responsible to improve the Server performance and SQL server optimization.? ? Resolved the failover situations in Log shipping and mirroring.? ? Solid experience in creating numerous simple to complex queries involving self-joins, correlated sub-queries, functions, and cursors, table variables, merge statements and dynamic T-SQL.? ? Setup Transaction and Snapshot Replication and maintain the servers.? ? Migrating SQL Server 2000 data bases into SQL Server 2005.? ? Environment: MS SQL Server 2005 to 2012, SSIS, SSRS, MySQL, Windows NT and Linux.? ? (SWATHI P) Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology JNTU 2007 to 2011 Skills Database (5 years), Linux. (5 years), MICROSOFT SSRS (5 years), MS SQL Server (5 years), MS SQL Server 2005 (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:? ? Database MS SQL Server 2005 to 2016, MYSQL? Operating System Windows Server 2003 to 2012R2 and Linux? Languages/Scripts C, SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, Java, Power Shell and Java script? Other Tools MS Office, SCOM, Toad, MS Visio, SQLLite, Tivoli? ETL/BI/Tools/NoSQL SSIS, SSRS, SSAS and Mongodb
Database Engineer Senior;Database Developer;Database Consultant:::Database Engineer Senior Database Engineer Senior Edison, NJ - Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Engineer Senior Fiserv - Jersey City, NJ - September 2007 to January 2012  Prepared and maintained data models for several software applications.?  Reviewed code of existing applications to understand how database code is embedded and determined reference/metadata data for several software applications of the company.?  Performed SQL Query Performance tuning for Oracle 9i/Oracle10G applications.?  Performed DBA tasks (backup and restore databases, transfer data for creating test environment for unit testing in development).?  Created SQL Server/Oracle objects (tables, stored procedures, indexes on databases) in development and QA.?  Prepared patches for database changes for production environment for existing applications.?  Granted access to users for applications in QA /development database.?  Developed tools to create simple stored procedures and triggers in SQL Server. Used tools to create two database applications in SQL Server 2005. Code for one application was reused to create the second application.?  Analyzed existing load and extract process for further changes in several future releases of major application of the company.?  Created tools with team members for software development to become Six Sigma Yellow Belt certified.?  Handled shortage of space in QA environment due to unexpected addition of databases on the server by removing historical data using batches and adhoc SQL statements. Database Developer ASI - Fairfield, NJ - October 2006 to January 2007  Performed SQL Query Performance tuning and modified stored procedures.?  Created SQL Server objects (tables, stored procedures, indexes on databases) in development, UAT and production servers.?  Extracted, transformed and migrated data between various databases and servers.?  Updated data and applied corrections in production databases per product support team requests.?  Performed DBA tasks (backup and restore databases, transfer data, create operators etc.)?  Tested DTS packages for data file upload and reported the cause of failure.?  Scheduled and ran jobs on UAT and production servers.?  Used query profiler for identifying and improving query performance.?  Added files to databases that were running out of space per production support team requests. Database Consultant Merrill Lynch - Pennington, NJ - April 2005 to September 2006  Developed back end code for menus and the main form used for an application launched for providing technical help.?  Wrote queries and stored procedures in SQL Server /Oracle for reports and related applications.?  Provided application support for a web based application using SQL Server 2000.?  Trained users in application administration tasks.?  Improved performance of several reports by fine tuning SQL code.?  Troubleshooted user access problems and fixed bugs.?  Modified process to automate manual tasks in Change Manager Tool that was used for handling user requests. Education M.A. in Computer and Information Science Brooklyn College - Brooklyn, NY 1987 M.Sc. in Statistics University of Rajasthan - Jaipur, Rajasthan 1983 B.Sc. in Physics, Mathematics and Applied Statistics Maharani's College - Jaipur, Rajasthan 1981 Skills Database (6 years), MS SQL SERVER (6 years), Oracle (5 years), SQL (6 years), SQL Server (6 years) Additional Information SKILLS? DBMS: SQL Server 2005; ORACLE 9i, Oracle 10G? Methodologies: Relational Database Design? Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL? Software: Erwin, MS Office, TOAD? Utilities: DTS? Operating Systems: UNIX, Windows
Oracle Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator - Titanium-3 Solutions, LLC Atlanta, GA - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Titanium-3 Solutions, LLC - Atlanta, GA - December 2015 to Present Installing Oracle software, planning the database & security strategy, enrolling system users and planning for their Oracle Network access.? ? Creating, migrating and backing up database for various clients.? ? Project Lead - successfully analyzed, recommended and implemented an active Oracle Data Guard to facilitate data protection, site redundancy and disaster recovery.? ? Successfully upgrade multiple databases and performance tuning, maintenance and training for continuous operation? ? Carrying out Oracle Database maintenance; base lining, performance tuning, alert configuration, using snap shots taking by Automated Workload Repository (AWR)/ Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) to generate performance reports, monitoring and database performance Database Administrator MTN Communications - Lagos, NG - December 2008 to 2015 Performed database cloning and refreshes from production to UAT/DEV environment? ? ? Work with Developers to design, develop, test and maintain Oracle PL/SQL packages, triggers, stored procedures and functions to support multiple clients.? ? Created, modified and maintained Oracle database objects and storage structures including tablespaces, tables, users, roles, profiles, directories and indexes.? ? Running complex queries to retrieve data from multiple tables within Oracle and SQL Server databases, ensuring fast and secure access to business application. Database Administrator Multi-Choice Nigeria - Lagos, NG - December 2005 to November 2008 Maintain the Oracle 10g RAC environment and troubleshoot performance problems.? ? Building test strategies, backup & recovery models for Oracle. Refreshing test databases.? ? Managing backup & Recovery for Oracle on Linux using RMAN? ? Going through the day-to-day user requests and troubleshooting the database related problems.? ? Linux shell scripting for monitoring oracle Database status, security & backups.? ? Monitored Tablespace size, resizing Tablespace, relocating data files for better disk I/O.? ? Created user, allocation of appropriate tablespace quotas with necessary privileges / roles? for Oracle & SQL Server databases.? ? Created backup plan design and implementation using cold/hot backups and RMAN backup technology.? ? Used OEM Grid Control Diagnostic and tuning packs to tune the application and SQL queries? ? Running complex queries to retrieve data and ad-hoc reports from multiple tables within Oracle database Education B.ENG. in Petroleum Engineering University of Uyo Skills cloning (6 years), Database (10+ years), databases (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), SQL (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills?  Ability to Provide 24x7 production supports for Oracle 10g/11g databases on Windows and UNIX platforms.?  Proficient in all DBA responsibilities such as installation, Configuration, Upgrades, Patches, Performance Tuning, Backup, Recovery, Cloning, Space management, Database Security, Auditing, Troubleshooting, Database Design, Unix Shell Scripting, Scripting in RMAN and Documentation.?  Planned and implemented maximum availability and disaster recovery infrastructure using Oracle Active Data Guard plus Broker and Installation and Configuration of UNIX/Red Hat Linux, Windows [?] for Oracle database and Grid Infrastructure (ASM)?  TOOLS: SQL*Plus, Enterprise Manager (OEM), Grid Control, Data Pump, SQL Loader, Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN), Recovery Catalog, Automated Workload Repository (AWR), ADRCI, Oracle Scheduler, Data Pump, Real Application Clusters (RAC), Standby Database (Physical, Snapshot, Logical), Unix Shell Scripting, Automatic Storage Management (ASM), TOAD, MobaxTerm, SecureCRT, Enterprise Reporting using Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Project.)?  LANGUAGES: XML, HTML, Intermediate JAVA, Cobol, SQL, PL/SQL? ? Soft Skills?  Excellent Financial, leadership qualities, team management and development skills?  Good communication (verbal and written) and interpersonal skills?  Reliable, Result Oriented, Trusted & Proactive, very hardworking, resourceful and dedicated with a high sense of duty.
Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator - Targeted Technology Solutions Silver Spring, MD -  Database administrator (DBA) with 6+ years of extensive experience in administration, designing, coding, testing and supporting next-generation database solutions in MS SQL Server environments.?  Expertise in Database administration and development for large and complex environments on SQL 2005, 2008R2, 2012 and 2014 versions?  Experience in Mirroring, Log shipping, Replication and Expertise in Always-On Availability Groups (AOAG) and HA/DR Troubleshooting?  Expertise in Database Administration on Production Servers with server configuration, performance tuning and maintenance with outstanding troubleshooting capabilities.?  Proficient in assortment of IT technologies.?  Delivering group and individual training sessions.?  Experience in installation, configuration and monitoring SQL Servers. Work Experience Database Administrator Targeted Technology Solutions - Silver Spring, MD - November 2014 to Present Database Administrator Ethiopian Airlines - Addis Ababa, ET - May 2010 to July 2013  Managed database remodeling and interface development during migration from MS Access to MS SQL server.?  Expert and experienced in Using DMVs, Performance dash board, Mirroring, database snapshots and tracking Performance Counters.?  Rebuilt/Monitor the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.?  Recovered the databases from backup in time of disasters by implementing Point-In-Time Recovery solutions.?  Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for performance and concurrency.?  Involved in Source Data Analysis, analysis and designing mappings for data extraction.?  Responsible for Design and Development of SSIS Packages to load the Data from various Databases and Files.?  Used SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA).?  Implemented the snapshot isolation for concurrency issues.?  Created DDL triggers Views, Stored procedures, functions?  Monitored and made recommendations for performance tuning including index management in hosted databases. This involved index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases.?  Implemented Data partitioning, Error Handling, Common Table Expression (CTE).? Certification and Conferences?  Administering Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2014 Databases (70-462)?  14th annual SQL Server Connections Conference Sept 2014.?  WEI International conference, Harvard University, Boston, USA, 2016.? https://www.westeastinstitute.com/proceedings/2016-boston-presentations/ Database Administrator enterprise Data Centers - Warsaw, PL - 2012 to 2012  Migrated SSIS packages from SQL Server 2008 R2 to SSIS 2012.?  Performed installation of SQL Enterprise 2012 SP1 CU 5 64bit version on Windows 2012 Sp1 Clusters (HP servers in enterprise Data Centers).? ? Graduate School for Social Research? Database Administrator? Warsaw, Poland? 8/2013 - 9/2014?  Created SQL databases for 2 large departments, from planning and testing through production.?  Responsible for SQL server logical and physical database design, implementation, and maintenance.?  Created new databases and users: set up backups, importing, export, and other monitoring scripts, involving importing and exporting: installing and configured database software for SQL server Application.?  Implemented database refresh using full export for table level and full database defragmentation, resulting in improved performance and effective space management.?  Managed database security.?  Designed, developed, and implemented automated data backup and restoration procedures.?  Provided new information technological (IT) information's and updates on SQL server license management and technical support for database maintenance and disaster recovery.?  Handled database server tuning, application tuning, maintaining documentation, and capacity planning and database security.?  Implemented backup and recovery procedures of databases.?  Managed and implemented IT department manual.?  Managed database remodeling and interface development during migration from MS Access to MS SQL server.?  Worked on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Education M.A. degree Lancaster University 2008 to 2009 Bachelor of Science in Mathematics Addis Ababa University May 2004 Advanced certificate in Database in administration and developing Technology Institute Advanced certificate in Software in performance Technology Institute Skills Database (5 years), MICROSOFT SSRS (1 year), performance tuning (3 years), Solutions (3 years), SQL (4 years) Additional Information DBA Skills? ?  MS SQL Database Administration/Installation.?  Performing SQL Always-On availability group?  Performance Tuning & Capacity Monitoring?  Data Security, Backup & Recovery? ?  Standby/Failover Administration?  Database-Backed Web Solutions?  SQL Tuning and troubleshooting?  BI (Business Intelligence)?  SQL SSIS services and SSRS Reports
Oracle Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator - Target Corporation Bloomington, MN - Oracle Database Administrator with 7 years of experience working in maximizing database performance, backup and recovery, and migration to help organizations attain mission critical goals through their IT infrastructure and investments. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Target Corporation - Brooklyn Park, MN - April 2014 to Present Supporting multiple databases for production, development and test and environment? ? Job Profile & Responsibilities:?  Heavily involved in production support for multiple databases ranging from 50G up to 4TB in a 24/7 environment.? ?  Managed Oracle Databases on Windows and Linux platforms.?  Resizing and reorganization of database objects: Tables, Indexes, Rollback segments and? ? Redo log files of existing production and development systems.? ?  Monitor the databases to identify and correct performance problems?  Upgraded Oracle Database from 11.2.0.1 to Oracle Database 11.2.0.4 working on Linux? ? platforms.? ?  Migrating from 11g to 12c in test environment.? ?  Performed traditional Cold backup in appropriate environments via OS commands as well as? ? logical exports, and also monitored the alert logs and troubleshot the errors.? ?  Database Refreshing/Replication from production to testing using Data pump.? ?  Performed Dataguard switchover as required for maintenance. This includes coordinating? with application owners and system administrators to when the switchover can be performed.? ?  Enhanced database users' understanding of database system by writing Standard Operating? ? Procedures which enhanced consistency and effectiveness.? ?  Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the database system.? ?  Enrolling users and maintaining system security.? ?  Ensuring compliance with Oracle license agreements.? ?  Controlling and monitoring user access to the database.? ?  Planning for backup and recovery of database information.? ?  Maintaining archived data on tape (or disk).? ?  Backing up and restoring the database using RMAN.? ?  Contacting Oracle for technical support.? ?  Using Remedy ticketing system to address database issues that users face.? ?  Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database (Tuning). Database Administrator Michelin Tires - Greenville, SC - October 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:?  Design of databases following OFA: Creating Databases schemas, profiles, database links,? ? Snapshots and Synonyms of objects as required to ensure data quality and security to comply with company's business rules. Backup / Recovery methodology specification for? ? mission critical databases? ?  Applied Oracle quarterly Patch Set Updates to non-RAC and RAC configured databases? ?  24x7 remote support and on call Database support using RSA-VPN.? ?  Preventive database monitoring: logs, space allocation and space management of database? structure? ?  Database performance tuning and performance optimization? ?  Database software upgrades, fixes, and patches and reinstallation? ?  Performed activities like monitoring the database and provide maximum uptime.?  Created and granted users the privileges and roles and resizing the datafiles to manage? ? database growth.?  Defined and implemented database backup and security strategies, tested the backups? periodically for consistency and reliability? ?  Identified long-running database queries, refining queries for better performance, and working? with end- users to implement changes?  Created primary database objects (tables, views, indexes) once application developers have? ? designed an application, and Performed up-gradation of 10g to 11g.?  Created the database objects such as Tables, Indexes, Views, Database Triggers,? ? Procedures, Functions, etc.? ?  Fixing critical database problems emerging during normal and abnormal operations? ?  Using Remedy and BMC service incident ticketing system for supporting the databases and users? ?  Participated in planning and implementation of off-site Disaster-Recovery planning and? ? testing. Database Administrator Standard Chartered Bank - Nairobi, KE - November 2009 to August 2013 Provided technical and administrative support for Oracle database 11g R1 and related tasks on Linux and Windows O/S.? ? Job Profile & Responsibilities:?  Assisted developers in defining application requirements RCMS software for customer? ? deposit management system having have had experience in crediting, debiting, and generating reports at end of business day? ?  Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import. Creating the database,? table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.? ?  Creating physical databases with multiple table spaces from logical and physical data model,? and also performed cold and hot backup using Oracle's Data pump.? ?  Creating user accounts and appropriate privileges? ?  Perform backup and recovery for numerous Oracle 11g databases using RMAN? ?  Database security monitoring and security compliance audits? ?  Helped migrate data using export and import between databases Education Associate of Science in Computer Science Normandale Community College Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate
Retail Database Administrator;Database Administration;Database Administrator;Database Administration;Database Administrator;Database Administration;Database Administrator;Database Administration;Database Administrator;Database Administration;Database Administrator;Database Administration:::Retail Database Administrator Retail Database Administrator - INFOGAIN INDIA PVT LTD - Work Experience Retail Database Administrator INFOGAIN INDIA PVT LTD - December 2014 to Present Database Administration INFOGAIN INDIA PVT LTD - Noida, Uttar Pradesh - December 2014 to Present Position: Team Lead? Environment: Amazon EC2 cloud , Implementation Retail 16,15,14 .1.1,14.1,14.0 end to end implementation, EBS R12.2.4 ,Oracle 11g Data guard.? ? Visa Status: Holding B1 Valid till JULY2027? Project Description:?  A'gaci:Presently infogain is implementing Complete Retail 15(MOM,RWMS,MFP,ORACLE INSIGHT(RCA/RMA)) having E2E?  E2E: INFOGAIN'S END-TO-END SOLUTION MANAGEMENT SERVICES PROVIDE ONGOING APPLICATION MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT FOR ORACLE RETAIL MAINTENANCE NEEDS, WITH AN OPTION FOR SHARED SUPPORT SERVICES TO MINIMIZE THE INVESTMENT.? ? Job Responsibilities?  Installation of end to end Oracle Retail 16,15,15.0.1,14.0 (RMS,RPM,OID,RIEM,ALLOCATION,RIB? Fusion client,BI PLUBLISHER, RWMS,RESA,RBS,ODI 11G, RFI integration: EBS R12.1.3 with RMS 14.1.1)?  Oracle Retail Mom & Warehouse upgradation from 15.0 to 15.0.1.?  Role based RMS user creation for RMS Applications.?  Retail Patching/Cloning/On-premise/Cloud installation?  Retail Analytical installation & Integration (RDE/RI/ODI/OBIEE).?  EBS upgrade 12.1.1 to 12.1.3.?  Single Sign-On for RMS,RPM,ALLOCATION,REIM,SIM Via webgate,oam,oid,webtire?  Managing EC2 AWS Instances.?  Supporting 11g Data guard Environments.?  Supporting Application team with DB Migration/Refresh/Testing.?  Performance and Tuning of the query, Maintain batch jobs.?  Installation of end to end Oracle Retail 16.0 (RMS,RPM,OID,RIEM,ALLOCATION,RIB? Fusion client,12C OBIEE,RETAIL INSIGHT)? ? Experience Database Administrator IBM INDIA - April 2014 to July 2014 Database Administration IBM INDIA - Bangalore, Karnataka - April 2014 to July 2014 Position: Sr.TECHNICAL SPECIALIST? ? Environment: Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, Aix/Sun Solaris/Linux/Windows? ?  Project Description:? PHILIPS:? ? Job Responsibilities?  Managing Sebile APPLICATION BASED DATABASES.?  Sev1/Sev2/Sev3 call management.?  Supporting Application team with DB Migration/Refresh/Testing.?  Performance and Tuning of the query, Maintain batch jobs.?  Supporting development team.?  Involved in Installation/Patching/Partitions/Migration/Refresh of Oracle 10g/11g.?  Managing/Monitoring Database through Grid Control.? ? Experience Database Administrator HCL TECHONOLOGIES - July 2010 to April 2014 Database Administration HCL TECHONOLOGIES - Noida, Uttar Pradesh - July 2010 to April 2014 Position: TECHNICAL SPECIALIST? ? Environment: Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, Aix/Sun Solaris/Linux/Windows? ?  Project Description:? Cummins: Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, (USA) Cummins employs approximately 44,000 people worldwide and serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of more than 600 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 6,500 dealer locations. Cummins earned $1.85 billion on sales of $18.0 billion in 2011Managed a $1.2 million data-integration project for financial services firm that consolidated information from accounting applications, third-party market data a RAC Maintenance And internal equities/fixed income applications. HCL is supporting Following Data center for Cummins which includes 11g RAC/10g/ Grid Control database? ? Job Responsibilities?  Oracle RAC & ASM Administration. RAC Maintenance Which include ASM Disk Group Creation?  Incident Management(Remedy):Cummins is following ITL process for SLA/Ticketing:Sev1/Sev2/Sev3.?  CM Management (Oracle database):Includes Request: DB creation/Migration/up gradation/Restoration.?  Performance and Tuning of the query.?  RCA report creation for every incident occurred, Problem.?  Meeting/Client discussion?  Involved in Installation/Patching/Migration/Refresh of Oracle 10g/11g.?  Managing/Monitoring Database through Grid Control? ? Project Description:? GAP: The Gap, Inc. is an American clothing and accessories retailer based in san Francisco, California, and founded in 1969 by Donald G.Fisher and Doris F.Fisher. The company has five primary brands: the namesake Gap banner, Banana Republic, Old navy, Piperlime and Athleta. As of September 2008, Gap, Inc. has approximately 150,000 employees and operates 3,465 stores worldwide. Gap, Inc. remains the largest specialist apparel retailer in the U.S., though it has recently been surpassed by the Spanish-based Inditex Group as the world's largest apparel retailer.? ? Job Responsibilities?  EBS R12 Installation/AD Patch Implementation/Merge Patch.?  R12 Multi node cloning.?  Gap is Retails organization, managing their Business on Oracle Retails Application & database warehouse.?  Sev1/Sev2/Sev3 call management.?  Performance and Tuning of the query, Maintain batch jobs.?  Establish/Implement/Planning/Maintain Backup/Restoring/Recovering the Fully Functional Database Policies and Procedures.?  Supporting development team.?  Involved in Installation/Patching/Partitions/Migration/Refresh of Oracle 10g/11g.?  Managing/Monitoring Database through Grid Control.? ? Experience Database Administrator IBM INDIA - May 2008 to July 2010 Database Administration IBM INDIA - New Delhi, Delhi - May 2008 to July 2010 Position: SENIOR SYSTEM ENGINEER? ? Environment: Oracle 10g/9i, Sun Solaris? ? Project Description:? Client KPN TELECOM NETHERLANDS? 1.Xilion: is the rating and billing environment for all VoIP services of the business market.Users connect through a web-based interface to a single database instance to process and manage accounts.BRM DATABASE ADMINISTRATION? 2.Ucm: Performance and Tuning of the query.? 3.Fast Track: Is a billing system and its part of multiplay involving fixed lines,ipTV,value added services for e.g. Mailbox,virus scans,PC inspector.It has two major databases used for billing rating.Fastrack databases are Teras data DBs and are integrated with BRM 6.7? ? Job Responsibilities?  Worked as Database consultant at KPN?  Managing BRM/CRM APPLICATION BASED DATABASES.?  Sev1/Sev2/Sev3 call management.?  Supporting Application team with DB Migration/Refresh/Testing.?  Performance and Tuning of the query, Maintain batch jobs.?  Up gradation from 9i to 10g? ? Experience Database Administrator Reliance Industries - February 2007 to May 2008 Database Administration - February 2007 to May 2008 Location: Navi Mumbai? Position: Executive? ? Environment: Oracle 10g/9i, Windows,Linux,Sun? ? Project Description:? Reliance Clinical Research Services OLS 4.5.1 Redeployment and Migration. Database Administrator iBilt TECHNOLOGIES - New Delhi, Delhi - April 2005 to January 2007 Database Administration iBilt TECHNOLOGIES - New Delhi, Delhi - April 2005 to January 2007 Position: Sr.Technical Support Executive.? ? Environment: Oracle 10g/9i, Windows,Linux,Sun? ? Project Description:? Working as a Team Member (sub-ordinate to Project Manager & leading a team of 8) for implementing Data center for the Department of FMS, MTNL. The project involves setting up & management of Oracle database ,IBM Servers and connecting them to 22 different MTNL sites within Delhi through Routers, The Operating System is AIX-UNIX while the database is Oracle-9i.? ? Job Responsibilities?  Creating database at various sites of MTNL?  Managing GUI and CUI oracle application?  Managing backups of the server.?  Tuning database?  Cold Backup?  Backup Recovery? ? IT Internship & Training? ? The project is assigned as a part of six-month training period.i am working in a team members in BHARAT SHANCHAR NIGAM LTD (BSNL).(DATA NETWORK) kidwai bhawan New Delhi. Education BCA IGNOU 2000 to 2003 Senior Secondary 1998 to 1999 C.B.S.E. in Board Guru HariKrishan Public School - New Delhi, Delhi 1996 to 1997 MCA IGNOU
Database Coordinator:::Database Coordinator Database Coordinator Atascadero, CA - Work Experience Database Coordinator Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Inc. - Paso Robles, CA - May 2016 to Present - Assisted in developing functional database applications in the latest version of FileMaker Pro? - Assisted in maintenance, reorganization, and expansion of existing database with recommendations and development of the overall database structure and future requirements? - Created a database to validate data from over 30 databases company-wide and transfer information into the web database? - Contributed in the launch of a new website through website testing? - Managed a database with 300,000 products and 80,000 categories? - Transferred product information from the FileMaker database into mySQL through customized scripts? - Updated the website through Oracle ATG Business Control Center (BCC) Education BS in Business Administration - Information Systems California Polytechnic State University-San Luis Obispo - San Luis Obispo, CA June 2012 to June 2016 Skills Microsoft Access, Microsoft Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Visio, Microsoft Project, SQL, Filemaker Pro, Customer Service, Team Building, Typing, Time Management, Organizational Skills, Data Entry, Data Analysis, Database Management, Communications, Teamwork, Critical Thinking, Written Communication, Oral Communication Awards Cal Poly Dean's List Academic Honors Certifications/Licenses Oracle Database 11g: SQL Fundamentals I Additional Information Relevant Coursework? - Business Application Development? - Database Systems in Business? - System Design and Implementation? - System Analysis and Design? - Software Testing? - Decision Support Systems? ? Academic Projects? ? Information System Analysis - Team Member? - Analyzed existing information system of a company? - Created Use Case Diagrams, Data Flow Diagrams, and Entity Relationship Diagrams? - Designed solution to company's current information system? ? Google Dashboard - Team Member? - Created a financial dashboard for Google in Microsoft Excel? - Wrote code in Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications? - Included balance sheets, cash flows, ratios, and stock information? ? Cambria Art Gallery Information System? - Constructed an Entity Relationship Diagram? - Wrote SQL script? - Transferred SQL script into Microsoft Access? ? Leadership Experience and Activities? ? Cal Poly Week of Welcome (WOW) Orientation Leader? - Completed an intensive 10 week leadership training program? - Led a group of 25 incoming students during a week of orientation programs? - Planned and implemented social, team-building, educational and awareness activities
Database development:::Job Seeker - Work Experience SSRS,SSIS,SSAS - 2005 to 2008 and troubleshoot migration issues.? ? Experience in providing Logging, Error handling by using Event Handler, and Custom Logging for SSIS Packages.? ? Experience in Performance Tuning in SSIS packages by using Row Transformations, Block and Unblock Transformations.? ? Experience in Designing Data mart and Data Warehouse using Star Schema and Snowflake Schema for implementing Decision Support Systems.? ? Developed OLAP cubes using SSAS (SQL Server Analysis Services). Calculate the metrics that were revealed in the functional analysis? ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and has ability to handle multiple tasks; can take initiative to handle responsibilities independently as well as a proactive member of a team. Database development SSRS,SSIS,SSAS - 2000 to 2005 using MSSQL Server 2000/2005/2008 Data Mapping and Data Mart - 2000 to 2005 2008, Crystal Reports Suite (9/10)? ? Extensive ETL experience using DTS/SSIS for Data Extractions , Transformations and Loads? ? Extensive Experience in Microsoft .Net Technologies using .Net Framework 1.1,2.0/,C# (.Net), VB.Net, ASP.Net.? ? Utilized Integration Services (SSIS) to produce a Data Mapping and Data Mart for reporting.? ? Developed Drill through and Drill down reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).? ? Developed & supported various mission critical Client Server applications by handling database requests for various application development teams involving complex business logic, functionality.? ? Involved in Designing numerous DB Objects like Tables, Constraints(Primary Key, Foreign Key, Unique ), Indexes, Defaults, rules? ? Extensive usage of Database diagrams and data modeling tools like Erwin in creating Logical and Physical models, establishing Entity Relations and forward/Reverse engineer to database systems? ? Involved in writing Complex Queries, heavy stored procedures, Batch Scripts, Triggers, Functions using T-SQL? ? Thorough knowledge of addressing Performance Issues and Involved in query tuning, Index tuning, Data Profiling and other database related activities? ? Involved in scheduling jobs, address Batch process issues, Debug code and Maintenance and bug fixes.? ? Test & Deploy code across various SDLC Environments like TEST, UA/UT/Production.? ? Involved in Installation ,Configuration, Development, Deployment and Troubleshoot Reporting services using SSRS 2000/2005/2008 across various environments? ? Provided Ad-hoc queries and Reports for Companywide users pulling data from Multi-terabyte data warehousing systems? ? Expertise in Enterprise Reporting in generating reports using linked reports, sub reports and filters, charts in SQL server reporting services.? ? Experience in creating Ad-hoc reports, data driven subscription reports by using Report Builder in SSRS.? ? Experience in Integrating SQL Server Reporting Services with Microsoft Office Share Point Server (MOSS).? ? Extensive knowledge in ETL Process & Progressive knowledge in using DTS/SSIS utilities? ? Experience in Extraction & Migration of Data from heterogeneous data sources like Excel, MS Access, Oracle, DB2 to MS SQL Server by using Import Export Wizard, DTS SSIS, BCP & Bulk Insert utilities? ? Expertise in designing SQL Server SSIS packages to import and transform data between databases and external data sources. Skills .Net (5 years), Database (8 years), MS SQL Server (8 years), SQL (8 years), SQL Server (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS? Operating Systems Windows Vista/ XP/ 2003/ 2000/ NT 4.0/ 9x, MS-DOS? Programming Languages T-SQL, PL/SQL, MDX, C, VB Script, C# .NET, VB .NET? Web Technologies HTML, XML, XSL, JavaScript, IIS [?]? Databases Microsoft SQL Server [?] MS-Access [?] Oracle 9i/10g? Tools/Utilities SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Enterprise Manager, SQL? Server Profiler, Visual SourceSafe 6.0, Visual Studio .Net, Microsoft? Management Console, DTS, SSIS, Business Intelligence Development? Studio (BIDS), Crystal Reports 9.0, ETL? Database Design Tools MS Visio, Erwin? Configuration Clear Case, Clear Quest, Visual Source Safe? BI Tools SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Integration Services? (SSIS), SQL Server Analytical Services (SSAS)? Application Packages MS Office, Ms Outlook (Microsoft Office Suite)? Portal SharePoint Portal Server 2003, Windows SharePoint Services? ? Client: Title Max, Dallas, TX Apr16?Till Date? Role: MSBI Developer? Responsibilities:? ? Involved in project planning, gathering requirements from the users, creating spec and layout of the report.? ? Used Footprints tickets for version control of the reports to know the status of the report.? ? Enhance/modify existing reports by creating new Parameters, Formulas etc.,? ? Assist in Business Administration in setting up security for various reports on Enterprise.? ? Responsible for setting up the Database logon info and parameters on Info View for the users to run the reports.? ? Retrieved data from Teradata database.? ? Create and Maintain Teradata Tables, Views, Macros, Triggers and Stored Procedures.? ? Interact directly with the business users in gathering requirements.? ? Optimize various SQL queries to make the reports run faster.? ? Create test data by creating views/procedures for reporting purpose.? ? Create and edit alerts on Reports, as per User request.? ? Generated the ad-hoc data as excel Reports to Users (through Teradata)? ? Migrate reports from Dev. to Production.? ? Provide on call support after reports are deployed to production.? ? Export reports in various formats like MS Excel, PDF, MS Word, Text and CSV.? ? Create nested, conditional subgroups and formatting features in reports.? ? Create Sub reports called from the main report to implement the business logic.? ? Create various database objects like Tables, Views and Stored Procedures by using Toad.? ? Responsible for defects raised during testing of the reports.? ? Assist UAT team in testing the reports using SQL queries in TOAD, SQL developer and Win SQL and advise them with necessary changes.? Environment: XI 3.1, 4.0, IDT, Oracle 10g/9i, PL/SQL, Teradata, SQL Developer, Win SQL, UNIX, Windows XP.? ? Client: American Express, Phoenix, AZ Sept'15?Mar'16? Role: SQL Developer/SSIS? Responsibilities:? ? Responsible for gathering and defining user report requirements and developing appropriate interfaces for the reporting infrastructure environment to meet customer business needs, based on business processes and data entities between various systems.? ? Involved in package migration from DTS to SSIS, running upgrade advisor against DTS Packages before migration, troubleshooting issues and conversion into SSIS through wizard or manually? ? Developed, monitored and deployed many SSIS packages? ? Involved in Automating SSIS Packages using SQL Server Agent Jobs, Windows Scheduler.? ? Developed appropriate layout and designs for required reports using the SSRS and Stored procedures to retrieve data from the SQL Server using appropriate SQL language (PL/SQL, T-SQL) to provide optimal performance.? ? Worked on server Migration of databases, Permissions, Logins, SQL jobs, SSIS Packages, from one server to another server and preparing the corresponding document for other environments.? ? Created Tabular reports, Matrix reports, List reports and Sub reports using SSRS.? ? Involved in Created Complex ad-hoc Reports, Sub Reports, Linked Reports , Charts, Drill through , and Report Models Drill Down Reports? ? Used complex expressions to Calculate, Group, Filter, parameterized and Format the contents of the report according to the requirement.? ? Used Conditional Formatting to change the behavior of the report depending on the requirement.? ? Developed various Custom Code functions using VB Script.? ? Deployed the SSRS Reports to the report server and maintained them.? ? Migrated and Converted over 200 Crystal Reports to SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).? Environment: SQL Server 2008 Enterprise Edition, SQL BI Suite (SSAS, SSIS, SSRS), Microsoft Visual studio 2008, Oracle 10g, Crystal Reports, PL/SQL, T-SQL, XML, Microsoft Visual Source Safe, TFS (Team Foundation Server), Subversion, Pivotal Tracker, MS Access 2003 & Windows Server 2003, VB Script.? ? Client: Landis, Minneapolis, MN Apr'15?Aug'15? Role: SSRS/SSIS Developer? Responsibilities:? ? Loaded legacy source data from MSSQL, MySQL, Oracle, Access, and SQL Server DB's into SQL Server 2008 R2 staging DB's using SSIS Import &Export Wizard and VB scripts, SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) and SSIS packages.? ? Worked on Health Data Conversions for NFL (National Football Leagues) and SeaWorld. Generating on demand reports using eBO reporting using SSRS and adhoc reporting using report builder feature in SSRS.? ? Maintaining and supporting the existing reports as per the requirements in the customer support portal. Worked on Maintaining, Generating Reports and Data Migration for various Hospital Database systems using SQL Server 2008, SSRS, SSIS, MySQL and vb.? ? Participate in creating data conversion and migration strategy, conversion design and conversion development documents. Participate in Data Modeling Sessions. Hosted SSIS, SSRS knowledge transfer, data quality issue meetings with the client on a weekly/biweekly basis.? ? Improved the performance of SSRS reports by tuning the Stored Procedures and TSQL queries using various join conditions. Generate experience in converting Actuate reports into SSRS. Created XML, PDF, EXCEL files using SSRS.? ? Created stored procedures and SQL statements for generating Ad-hoc Reports in SSRS. Used dynamic connection managers using SSIS expressions to load data from 25 databases into a single DB.? ? Deployment of SSIS packages to the conversion server and create and schedule SQL Server Agent jobs to automate the run of SSIS packages on a weekly basis. Experience in creating master and child packages, using package configurations (XML, SQL Server) and SSIS logging.? ? Performed SQL Server DBA tasks like Conversion DB backups using compression, restore and disk space management on the conversion server, disabling and enabling constraints and triggers, applying DB Change requests, lookup data changes incorporation, logins & permissions. Created linked servers to write validation queries against the source and target present on different servers.? ? Involved in the entire conversion lifecycle stages of Requirement Analysis, Data Profiling, Logical and Physical Data Mapping, Strategy, design, development, Unit testing, conducting conversion mock runs to provide data for the Development DB, SIT, UAT, Data Reconciliation and validation.? ? Documentation of Business Rules, Data Mapping Spreadsheet, Meeting Minutes, Key decisions from the client, SSIS and SSRS introduction material to the client.? ? Worked with Managers to prepare requirements gathering documents and quality documents.? ? Environment: SSIS [?] Server 2008R2, T-SQL, Visual Basic .Net, Vb6, XML, eManager, eBO reporting, Microsoft Project, SVN, Core Java, Microsoft Access, SSRS, Microsoft Excel, QAS.? ? Client: EXPERIAN, Grove City, OH Jan'14?Mar'15? Role: MS SQL Developer/SSRS/SSIS? Responsibilities:? ? Gathered business requirements by interacting with the Business Analysts. Installed and Configured SQL Server 2005. Configured the Window Server for required Service Packs.? ? Developed Database Objects such as Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, Functions, and Triggers using SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) and T-SQL statements to implement complex business logic. Designed and implemented Stored Procedures and Triggers for automating tasks.? ? Created Indexes and performed Index Tuning using Index Tuning Wizard for tables and came up with more efficient solutions to use Clustered and Non-Clustered Indexes for significant performance boost.? ? Reduced the T-SQL overhead successfully by avoiding unnecessary use of The UNION, statement & using the TOP operator to limit the Select Statement in certain Queries.? ? Used various SSIS tasks such as Conditional Split, Derived Column, which were used for Data Scrubbing, data validation checks during Staging, before loading the data into the Data warehouse.? ? Created SSIS packages to load data into Data Warehouse using Various SSIS Tasks like Execute SQL Task, bulk insert task, data flow task, file system task, send mail task, active script task, xml task.? ? Worked on Report generation using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) that could be used to send information to Compliance Group, Order Flow management (OFO) Group, Network Planning Group, TN Management Group etc.? ? Used SSRS to create reports, customized Reports, on-demand reports, ad-hoc reports and involved in analyzing multi-dimensional reports in SSRS.? ? Maintain Operators, Categories, Alerts, Notifications, Jobs, Job Steps and Schedules. Monitor connections, locks and performance of SQL server. Integrated ASP.Net pages with SQL server Database. Designing and building data load procedures using MS SQL Server.? ? Generated Sales Ranking reports using SQL Server Reporting Services for different subjects. Documented all the procedures and processes for future references.? Environment: MS SQL Server 2005, SSRS 2005, SSIS 2005, Windows Server 2003, PVCS, Citrix, Windows XP, Erwin 7.1, MSMS, MS Visual Studio 2005, ASP.Net, Xml.? ? Client: Meta Software Solutions, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh? Role: MS SQL Server SSIS/SSRS/BI Developer Feb'10?Dec'13? Responsibilities:? ? Involved in all the phases of SDLC.? ? Filtered bad data from legacy system using complex T-SQL statements, and implemented various types of Constraints and Triggers for Data Consistency.? ? Used Stored Procedures for updating Servers.? ? Used DDL and DML Triggers, Stored procedures to check the Data Integrity and verification at early stages before calling them.? ? Used SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and its tools to Extract, Transform and Load data into Data Ware House.? ? Developed, deployed and monitored SSIS Packages. Involved in creating log files for SSIS packages.? ? Created SSIS Package configurations for executing in different environments.? ? Enabled Check points in SSIS package. Created break points in order to view the status of data, variables and over all status of SSIS package.? ? Extensively involved in designing the SSIS packages to export data of flat file source to SQL Server database.? ? Enhancing and deploying the SSIS Packages from development server to production server.? ? Developed and Deployed different types of Reports like List, Matrix, and Chart and Sub Reports etc.? ? Designed and developed parameterized reports, linked reports, matrix and tabular reports with drill down, drill through and drop down menu option using SSRS.? ? Created/ Maintained clustered/ non clustered Indexes for fast and efficient reporting process.? ? Used SSRS to create interactive reports with an ability to drill down into details.? Environment: .NET 3.0, MS SQL Server 2005, SSIS, SSRS, T-SQL,Visual Studio 2005, MS Office 2003, SQL Profiler, Windows [?]? ? Client: Virtusa, Hyderabad, India Apr'08?Aug'10? Role: SQL/SSRS Developer? Responsibilities:? ? Administered and enhanced SQL Server Reporting Services (SSIS).? ? Being a member of BI development and reporting team, involved in writing lots of reports incorporating business logic and user requirement.? ? Involved in building huge number of reports using multivalve, single valued and dependent parameters.? ? Involved in Automating SSIS Packages using SQL Server Agent Jobs, Windows Scheduler.? ? Developed reports using complex TSQL queries, User Defined Functions, store procedures and Views? ? Involved in Installation, Configuration of SSRS Reporting server and involved in Deploying reports.? ? Used VB.Net, VB Scripts for loading data using SSIS Packages.? ? Designed and developed matrix and tabular reports with drill down, drill through and drop down menu option using SSRS.? ? Involved in designing sub reports and linked reports depending on the user requirement and in order to limit the number of Data Sources.? ? Involved in building huge number of reports using multivalve, single valued and dependent parameters.? ? Involved in Created Complex ad-hoc Reports, Sub Reports, Linked Reports , Charts, Drill through , and Report Models Drill Down Reports? ? Involved in writing C# scripts for script task in SSIS.? ? Worked on analyzing and Performance tuning queries by looking at the Indexes, appropriate joins, Query Statistics and Execution plans using SQL Profiler /Query Analyzer/SSMS? ? Deployed reports across Test, Development and Production Environments? Environment: T-SQL, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server [?] SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS), MS Excel, Visual Source Safe (VSS), Windows XP, Crystal Reports 9.0, Oracle9i, C#.
Database Engineer:::Database Engineer Riverton, UT - Expertise in Software development, Design, and Implementation.? Experienced in Website development.? Experienced in Mobile Application development.? Able to work effectively in team and solo environments. Willing to relocate to: Seattle, WA - Texas - Oregon Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Engineer Willis Towers Watson - Salt Lake City, UT - July 2017 to Present Database engineer Intern for Information Management department. Currently working part time with school as a Jr. Database engineer. ? Working in SQL server and many ETL data tools. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Neumont University September 2014 to Present Skills Android (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), database (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills? Utilities: MS Office Suite, Google Drive, Trello, IntelliJ, Android Studio, Eclipse, Visual? Studio, VMWare, MySQL workbench? Database: MySQL, SQL, MongoDB, Neo4j? Operating System: Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, Linux, Android? Version Control: GIT, SVN? Programming Languages: Java, C#, SQL, Android, JavaScript, CSS, HTML5
Database Development:::Job Seeker Boston, MA - Work Experience Airline Reservation System - March 2017 to Present  Performing semantic analysis on text scraped from 6,000 customer reviews on amazon.com for phones.?  Calculating the growth statistic of the phones by training model with emotions using lexicons for improved sentiment? analysis and stemming reviews and lexicons using openNLP package in R for handling complex dataset. Database Development Airline Reservation System - February 2017 to Present Creating a database for Airline Reservation system. Analysis, writing, troubleshooting of SQL code, developing EER? diagram on TOAD and underlying structures by adding triggers, stored procedures, functions and transactions.?  Designing an Authentication table to keep logs and integrating it with Tableau for providing statistical insights. North Middlesex Regional School District - December 2016 to Present Combinatorial optimization of time, cost, distance and routes of buses for over 3100 students from 7 schools in Ashby,? Townsend and Pepperell in Massachusetts using VRP solver, MS Excel and gmapsdistance package in Rstudio. North Middlesex Regional School District - December 2016 to March 2017  Used the Clarke-Wright savings algorithm for randomization and improved heuristics like Simulated Annealing and Tabu Search to achieve the optimized logistics solution to this Vehicle Routing Problem, potentially saving $350,000.? Healthcare Data Analysis Center for Disease Control Prevention Dec '16 - Mar '17?  Worked on health survey data by Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, to predict health statistic of almost? 500,000 citizens of USA and improve the surveillance of health risks.?  Conducted data collection, cleansing, and exploratory analysis and used machine learning techniques like Support Vector Machines in R - September 2016 to December 2016 for dimensionality reduction from 330 covariates, and predictive analysis.? Predictive Analysis of Demand and Inventory Management Sept '16 - Dec '16?  Predicted the daily demand of produce for Naroda market(INDIA) using the historical horticulture data regarding inventory, sales and waste, in order to reduce the monthly produce waste by 40,000 units.?  Developed visualization using Tableau, and conducted statistical analysis using MiniTAB and MS Excel.? KAGGLE?  Worked on datasets like MNIST for image recognition, Prudential Life Insurance Risk Assessment, House price? prediction, Titanic dataset for predicting survivors, for competitions ranging from 2 to 10 months. Education Masters in Engineering Management in Data Mining and Machine Learning Northeastern University - Boston, MA December 2017 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering National Institute of Technology - Surat, Gujarat May 2016 Skills Business Development (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Exchange (Less than 1 year), Finance (Less than 1 year), MS Excel (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/bhattkaran Additional Information SKILLS CERTIFICATIONS?  R Programming MySQL Tableau Python MS Excel MS Project MiniTAB MS Visio?  'Customer Analytics and Operations Analytics' - Wharton School of Management?  'Advanced R programming' - John Hopkins University? LEADERSHIP ROLES? Engineering Management Ambassador Northeastern University Present?  Proactively provided admitted students with information about campus and program. Interacted in public with 500+? international students and addressed their admission and career concerns.?  Drove key parts of project strategy and aided the increasing yield of admitted students that enroll into Northeastern's? Fall 2017 program by almost 30%? Vice President Talent Management AIESEC Feb '13 - Feb '15?  Recruited, trained, mentored new talent for the organization; Organized conferences, events, fund-raisers over the? course of 2 years. Worked in Finance, Business Development, Marketing, International Exchange departments.?  International exchanges in Russia, Mexico, Egypt for research, management and photography projects.
Database Specialist:::Database Specialist Eagan, MN - Looking for office or administration work.? ? History: 25 years in Minnesota School System:?  Waconia Schools - High School and Middle School?  St. Louis Park School - K-12, Early Childhood, ALC's, District Integration, etc.?  Consultant for Charter Schools for Power School Software System and State Reporting.? o Yinghau Academy? o Twin Cities German Immersion School Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Specialist St. Louis Park School District - Saint Louis Park, MN - August 2000 to August 2012  Administration?  Training Teachers and Staff?  Data base Specialist (Ties, SASI, Power School)? ? In charge of transition of software systems from SASI software to Power School software for 5 Elementaries, 1 Middle School, 1 High School, 1 ALC, 1 Early Childhood and District Integration? ? Training Teachers Electronic gradebooks, Staff, and Parent Web Logins?  Data Analysis Report Builder?  State Report Filing (MARRS, STARS, CRDC, MCCC, Transportation, Discipline) Skills Excel (10+ years), Mac (10+ years), Training (10+ years), Word (10+ years) Additional Information Skills:?  Mac or PC?  Excel?  Word?  Electronic Grade books?  Parent Web page?  Building Master Schedules for Elementary, Middle and High Schools?  Training Teachers for Electronic Gradebooks?  Training Administration staff on new software system?  Training Parents on who to use Web software to follow student progress
Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator Woodbridge, VA - MS SQL Server DBA with over 4 years experience looking for a SQL Server database administrator position.? Extensive experience in installation, configuration, upgrading, migration, backup and disaster/recovery, performance tuning, high availability solutions, security, and data transformation in MS SQL Server environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator FARMERS NATIONAL - Arlington, VA - March 2013 to 2017 Responsibilities:? ?  Installed, Configured & Maintained SQL Server 2008, 2008R2,2012 on standalone and clustered Servers?  Successfully upgrade and apply service packs, patches?  Migrated databases from My SQL and Oracle to SQL Server ?  Implemented periodic security controls to manage database users and their appropriate level of permission and data encryption ?  Extensive knowledge in documenting and implementing database backup and recovery for DR solutions and point-in-time recovery ?  Automated daily database refreshes from production on-demand database refreshes from Production to Test environments involving different versions of SQL Server?  Created and modified database structure using Data Definition Language (DDL) statements to create tables, indexes, store procedures, functions, views and trigger?  Manage very large databases (VLDB) ?  Table partition to improve I/O access?  Importing and exporting data between SQL Server and other sources such as Flat file, CSV file, Oracle, My SQL, Access, ODBC/OLEDB data sources, etc. using SSIS and Import/Export Wizard, BCP?  Generated reports using SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services) and deployment, managed reports and managed reports security ?  Experience in creating and maintaining High Availability solutions including Database Mirroring, Log Shipping, and Replication (transactional replication)?  Monitored and scheduled automation jobs using SQL Server Agent and maintenance plan?  Configured Database Mail, Operator, notifications to send and receive database related information ?  Monitored databases for optimal performance and diagnosed performance problem using SQL Profiler, Wait Stats, DMV?s (Dynamic Management View), Activity Monitor, Extended Events, Error log, Windows Performance Monitor?  Identified and Optimized poorly-performing queries to improve system performance ?  Used SQL execution plan to find the cost and running process for TSQL code and optimized poorly written code ?  Developed script to find missing indexes, unused indexes and duplicate indexes and created appropriate indexes to optimize slow running queries?  Rebuilding / monitoring the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.?  Troubleshoot day-to-day problems encountered on Production and Non-Production environments?  Run various DBCC commands to checks database consistency?  Ability to work independently and in a team environment?  Available On-call support to ensure database operations?  Check ticketing system and work on requests as a Production DBA. Education Bachelor Information Systems Addis Ababa University 2011 Skills TECHNICAL SKILLS  Database (RDBMS): SQL Server 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2014, MS Access,  SQL Tools: SQL Server Management Studio, Upgrade Advisor, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, Database Tuning Advisor, Index Tuning Wizard, SQLCMD, SQL Configuration Manager, and SQL Server Data Diagram  High availability: SQL clustering, always on availability, mirroring, log shipping, replications  ETL Tools: SSIS  Reporting: SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services/Server)  Operating Systems: Windows server 2008/2012, Active Directory, VMware, Cloud Computing  Web Application: SharePoint Enterprise  Web Server: IIS 6.0  Monitoring Tools: System Monitor, Counter, Windows Event Logs, Activity Monitor, DMV, Idera  Other Tools: SQL Server Migration Assistant, ODBC/DB Link, Toad Data Modeler, Redgate (4 years) Certifications/Licenses MCSA  MCSA: Querying Microsoft SQL Server 2012?  MCSA: Administering MSSQL server 2012 Database ?  MCSA Implementing Data Warehouse With MSSQL server 2012?  Training on Database Log Shipping, Mirroring, Replication, Clustering, AlwaysOn, T-SQL, SSIS?  Training on SQL Server Reporting service?  SQL Server Performance Tuning Workshop
Senior Database Developer;Database Developer:::Senior Database Developer Senior Database Developer Arlington, VA - Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Developer ZTE Corporation Ethiopia - 2010 to 2012  Involved in database schema design.?  Requirements gathering, functional and technical specifications.?  Creating tables, indexes and designing constraints, wrote T-SQL statement for retrieval of data involved in performance tuning of T-SQL queries and stored procedure.?  Experience in creating custom reports, drill-down, parameterized for end user requirement, Ad hoc reports using SSRS in business intelligence studio.?  Used SSIS to create ETL packages to validate, extract, transform and load data to data warehouses and data marts.?  Enhancing and deploying the SSIS packages from development server to production server.?  Process SSAS cubes to store data to OLAP databases.?  Extensively used Joins and sub-queries for complex queries involving multiple tables from different databases.?  Created and modified tables, various clustered/non-clustered indexes, triggers, check constraints and functions.?  Created triggers to keep track of changes to the fields of tables when changes are made.?  Optimized the database by creating various clustered, non-clustered indexes and indexed views.?  Used SSIS to create ETL packages to validate, extract, transform and load data to data warehouse and data marts.?  Designed SSIS Packages to extract data from various data sources such as Access database, Excel spreadsheet, and flat files and load data into destination databases for further Data Analysis and Reporting.?  Experience in using multiple data flow transformations provided by SSIS such as Data Conversion, Conditional Split, Merge and Union all.?  Created SSIS Packages using Pivot Transformation, Fuzzy Lookup, Derived Columns, Condition Split, Term extraction, Aggregate, Execute SQL Task, Data Flow Task, and Execute Package Task etc. to generate underlying data for the reports and to export cleaned data from Excel Spreadsheets, Text file, MS Access and CSV files to data warehouse.?  Responsible for creating DTS (SSIS) packages in T-SQL, Scheduling packages in SQL Server 2000 database. Improve data load performance by analyzing database design, database modeling, query plans and database settings. Create DTS packages to generate monthly enrollment and billing files.?  Created SSIS packages and used Analysis Services processing task to update the cube with current data. Database Developer Ministry of Communications and Information Technology - 2007 to 2010  Experience on T-SQL, SSRS, SSIS, BI, Reporting and analytics.?  Experience of creating and calling stored procedures, functions, cursors, triggers, indexes using SQL Server.?  Skills in Data Modeling, Data Mapping, Table Normalization, Optimization and Tuning.?  Experience in writing complex SQL queries involving multiple tables inner and outer joins.?  Developed and deployed various detailed reports involving jump to report, jump to URL, and sub-reports like matrix or tabular reports, charts, graphs, and dynamic image using SQL server.?  Worked in ETL and data integration using SSIS.?  Expert knowledge and experience in authoring, managing, and deploying reports using SSRS.?  Designed SSIS Packages to extract data from various data sources such as Access database, Excel spreadsheet, and flat files and load data into destination databases for further Data Analysis and Report.?  Experience in using multiple data flow transformations provided by SSIS such as Data Conversion, Conditional Split, Merge and Union all.?  Experience and understanding of SSAS, OLAP cube, Data mining and Architecture.?  Worked on OLAP Data warehouse, Model, Design, and Implementation.?  Designing Cubes, Star Schema and Data models for Data Warehousing Applications.?  Experience in Designing and Building the Dimensions and cubes with star schema and snowflake schema using SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS). Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Addis Ababa University Bachelor of Science in Applied Mathematics in Applied Mathematics Addis Ababa University Skills ETL (5 years), Excel (5 years), EXTRACT, TRANSFORM, AND LOAD (5 years), MICROSOFT SSRS (5 years), MS SQL Server (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills?  RDBMS/DBMS: MS-SQL Server [ ] Oracle 11g, MS Access.? ? Operating Systems?  Windows [ ] NT, UNIX, Linux.? DBA Tools?  SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Data Tools, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard, Enterprise Manager?  Reporting Tools: Reporting Services (SSRS) [ ] Crystal Reports? ETL Tools?  Data Transformation Services (DTS), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Talend Open Studio, Visual Studio? Programming Language?  C, C++, C#, T-SQL, JAVA and Visual Basics? Utilities/Applications?  Rational Rose, UML, MS-Word (2010), MS-Excel (2010), MS-PowerPoint (2010),
Database Specialist:::Database Specialist Statesboro, GA - Work Experience Database Specialist Biology Department Education BA Georgia Southern University
Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator - United Health Care Arlington, VA - U.S. Citizen an experienced Database Administrator over five (5) years of experience in the SQL Server Relational Database Management System. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator United Health Care - Reston, VA - July 2016 to Present * Authoring, scheduling and maintaining stored procedures? * Creating and maintaining tables structures? * Tune, administer, create, and maintain SQL instances? * Develop and document procedures for backup and recovery of databases? * Update, maintain, and implement security policies in accordance with client requirements? * Advise and coordinate future architectural changes with the development teams? * Coordinate with developers on database updates? * Managing ETL processes between SQL and Oracle? * Successfully upgraded SQL Server 2008R2 to 2012? * Designed, implemented and configured SQL Server DEV/PROD environment? * Setup and configured database Always on in Synchronized and Asynchronized mode? * Verified raw data conversion to usable CMS Reports elements? * Wrote stored procedure to audit SQL Servers, establish and enforce security auditing mechanism, performance tuning and optimization? * Researched, designed and tested a migration plan from SQL Server 2012 to SQL Server 2016? * Migrated over 180 databases from SQL Server? * Designed database backup and restore plan? * Researched and implemented a recovery plan to a point in time failure? * SQL Server performance statistics collection, Server monitoring and performance tuning? * User account management and connection troubleshooting? * Database capacity planning, Maintenance planning, SQL Agent Jobs scheduling and troubleshooting? * Implement and maintain database security, replication, SQL Clustering, Stand by server, DTS, Log Shipping and SQL Mail to manage small, medium and large SQL Server 2000 projects Database Administrator TD Bank Financial Services - February 2012 to June 2016 Database Adminstrator? * Installed, Configured and Managed SQL Server in development, test and production environment? * Strong working experience in SQL native database Backup and restore.? * Disaster Recovery planning and implementation.? * Experienced with Point-in-Time Recovery.? * Assisted Database Developers to optimize SQL queries and Stored Procedures.? * Export & Import data from Flat file, CSV file to/from SQL Server Database using DTS, SSIS, and BCP? * Strong on database Monitoring and Performance tuning? * Monitor SQL Server Error Log, space usage, Events, Jobs, customer complaints, Daily routine works? * Experienced with Point-in-Time Recovery, Database Backup and Disaster Recovery? * Restored Database from backup? * Installed, Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Clustering using SQL Server? * Installed and Configured SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)? * Configured and Maintained Replications and Log Shipping as part of a high availability solution? * Applied SP (Service Pack) on SQL Server? * Expertise in database Performance Tuning? * Wrote T-SQL and Stored-Procedures? * Responsible for creating, modifying and managing tables, Indexes (Cluster/Non-Cluster), Constraints (Unique/Check), Views, Stored Procedures and Triggers? * Exported & Imported data from Flat file, CSV file, Oracle, MySQL and Access to/from SQL Server Database using DTS, SSIS and BCP? * Data modeling using Toad Data Modeler and Visio? * Generated Report using SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services)? * Responsible for Database Backup, Restore and Point-in-Time Recovery? * Monitored Server Activity, Error Log, space usage and solved problems as needed Education Technology UNIVERSITY OF PESHAWAR Skills DATABASE (5 years), MS SQL SERVER (5 years), SQL (5 years), SQL SERVER (5 years), ACCESS (4 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (Less than 1 year), ASP (Less than 1 year) Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS? * Database: SQL Server 2005, 2008 [?] 2014, 2016 Microsoft Access? * Networking: Active Directory, RAID? * Tools: Idera DBA Suite, Idera (SQL Compliance Manager), SQL Ignite, Quest (Lite Speed, SpotLite), Toad Data Modeler? * Operating Systems: Windows Server [?] R2? * Web Servers: IIS 5.0, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, 7.5? * Programming Languages: Transact-SQL, SQL, ASP, ASP.net, VB/JavaScript, HTML
Database Specialist;Database Developer:::Database Specialist Somerset, NJ - Work Experience Database Specialist QuintilesIMS - April 2015 to Present Database Developer Businessone Technologies - Bensalem, PA - April 2014 to April 2015 Education MS in Computer Science New Jersey Institute of Technology - New Jersey January 2017 to December 2018
Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Manager/Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator - TriumphInc Patchogue, NY - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Work Experience Database Administrator TriumphInc - New York, NY - 2005 to Present  Created new databases and users: set up backups, export, and other monitoring scripts?  Responsible for Oracle 9i logical and physical database design, implementation, and maintenance on Windows NT?  Implemented database refresh using full export for table level and full database defragmentation, resulting in improved performance and effective space management.?  Managing database security. Design, develop, and implement automated data backup and restoration procedures. Provide technical support for database maintenance and disaster recovery?  Identify, recommend, and implement all new database technologies and Oracle license management. Database Administrator TriumphInc - Amelia, LA - 2008 to 2014  Created new databases, involving importing and exporting: installing and configured database software for Oracle Application development environment.?  Responsible for Oracle 9i logical and physical databases design, implementation, and maintenance?  Reorganized databases and sized database objects to meet standards and improve performance 30%?  Handled database server tuning, application tuning, maintaining documentation, capacity planning and database security Database Manager/Administrator TriumphInc - Amelia, LA - 2003 to 2007  Creation from planning, testing, and Implementation. Backup and recovery procedures of databases in multiple platform environment(Windows/VM WARE/Sun Solaris/Red Hat - Linux environment: implemented backup and recovery procedures fabricating instructions and other IT manual.?  Managed database remodeling and interface development during migration from MS Access to MS SQL server and from MS SQL to Oracle 8i?  Enhanced MS-Access manipulation of Relational databases improving user interface design, introducing multiple-user access, and increasing security and stability?  Involved in all phases of database development, from needs assessment to QA/QC, design, and support?  Held Oracle DBA responsibility for parallel Oracle/SAP database using Oracle Parallel Server?  Supported Oracle developers. Performed database tuning, created database reorganization procedures, scripted database alerts, and monitored scripts Education Lafayette Computer Science and Business Administration University of Louisiana - Lafayette, LA 1998 Skills Database (10+ years), Database Administrator (10+ years), databases (10+ years), Linux (5 years), Oracle (10+ years) Additional Information  Over 7 years of experience, including 5 years as DBA in development and production environments and SQL Relational Data Bases.?  Ensure Oracle database systems operate efficiently and securely.?  Skilled in designing and implementing complete life cycle client servers and database applications with various development tools and languages.?  Manage internal databases, from planning and testing stages through implementation and support.?  In-depth understanding of security and backup procedures to ensure database integrity. Background in developing backup and disaster recovery plans for nationwide offices.?  Superior communication, presentation, analytical and problem solving skill. Work well with all levels of business.? ? TECHNICAL SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE? Databases: Oracle 7/8/9 (RAC/OPS), MS-SQL, Universal Database V8.1, Access, Lotus Notes, SAP, DPF Operating Systems: Windows server 2014 - 16, Operating Systems /NT/XP, UNIX Linux/ Solaris Applications: SQL-Loader, SQL Navigator, SSH, Forte for Java, Apache, IIS, Domino 4.x/5.x/6.x, ULTRADEV, Languages: Java, JSP, JDBC, XML, HTML, C, C++, Perl, VB, NET, ASAP.NET: Oracle9i Database Administrator, DB2 Universal Database V7.1 Database Administration for UNIX, Windows, and OS/2
Database Developer Edina, MN - Obtain a part-time position that leverages my extensive experience with relational databases in general and Microsoft SQL Server in particular. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Developer Alto Consulting and Training - Edina, MN - January 1988 to Present For the past 30 years I've been at the same company, Alto Consulting & Training. My role has been that of a senior software analyst, lead developer, courseware author, and classroom instructor. In that capacity I have been involved in a great many projects both large and small. See attached bio for more information.? ?  Microsoft Certified Trainer (MCT) with emphasis on SQL Server and SharePoint?  Microsoft Customer Immersion Experience (CIE) Facilitator?  Dozens of individual Microsoft certification exams? ? Craig Yellick, Bio? ? Craig Yellick is a senior enterprise architect and noted author and lecturer who speaks and writes regularly on a wide range of database software design and programming topics. He has authored eleven technical training? courses, two books on programming and several dozen conference papers, journal, magazine and newsletter articles, and solution briefings.? ? Craig is a Microsoft Certified Solution Developer (MCSD) with certifications in numerous development tools and SQL Server as well as the core operating system certifications. He is also a Microsoft Certified Trainer (MTC) and is qualified as a facilitator for Microsoft Customer Immersion Experience (CIE) hands-on Office 365 workshops.? ? A firm believer in peer review, Craig has presented his concepts and techniques at technical conferences all over the world, including France, Germany, Scotland, Belgium, Italy, South Africa, Singapore and Kuala Lumpur, as well as several major American conferences.? ? Craig has worked as a professional software developer for over 30 years and offers a wealth of proven, real-world techniques. As a senior analyst he designed many software applications and has implemented programming standards and conventions for development teams.? ? Recent major design wins:? ?  AiR Medical Claims Data Mining, data warehouse and complex data mining process for scoring individuals at risk for opiate addiction. Raw data is staged, validated and imported from a wide variety of? formats provided by insurance carriers, then standardized for analysis, research and data mining.? ?  TRACS4Life, a clinical system for implantable human tissues in use at hospitals and army medical centers nationwide. This system was the first hosted, commercial application based on SharePoint as an? application platform. It integrates SharePoint with custom .NET-based web workflows and accepts HL7 data feeds from hospital information systems.? ?  ZIMS, a very large scale zoological information management system used by zoos and aquaria all over the world. Craig's architectural design is credited with making off-shore software development? substantially more effective, producing higher quality software, faster, using only moderately experienced programmers.? ? Craig is expert in the use of the following Microsoft tools and technologies:?  Relational database design, deployment and optimization with SQL Server?  N-tier client/server application design and implementation with Visual Studio?  Software applications using the .NET Framework?  SharePoint data and process integration?  Semi- and non-structured data manipulation with XML-related technologies? ? In addition to consulting and software design, Craig is an instructor for numerous public training classes. Courses he has authored:?  XML Implementation and Data Management?  Advanced XML DOM and XSL-Transformation?  ADO.NET for Application Developers?  SQL Query and Data Transformation?  SQL Server for Application Developers?  Site Server Commerce Edition for Application Developers?  Data Warehousing & Online Analytical Processing?  Access for Application Developers: Intro, Intermediate and Advanced?  Visual Basic for Application Developers: Intro, Intermediate, Advanced?  Business Productivity Online Suite (now known as Office 365)?  Windows Terminal Server + MetaFrame Administration Skills SQL Server (10+ years), Visual Studio (10+ years)
Oracle Database Administrator;Database Administrator, Database Developer:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator Fort Washington, MD - A Detailed and goal-oriented Oracle Database Administrator with 6+ years of experience in designing, implementing and maintaining Oracle 10g and 11g RDBMS. Supported a variety of mission critical applications with Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c. Worked across a multitude of platforms (Solaris, UNIX, and Windows) in production and development environments with responsibilities encompassing Installation, Configuration, Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Memory Management, Data Modeling, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, auditing, RAC, Data Guard, Grid Control, Oracle Streams and production support.? Expert knowledge in installing oracle database server on HP-UX, AIX, LINUX and migration of oracle server from 10g to 11g and 12c.? ? Strong experience in implementing ORACLE STREAMS, and two types of standby databases supported by logical standby and physical standby. ? ? Hands On experience in implementing Data masking policies for protecting the sensitive data in the database.? ? Extensive knowledge on database backup/recovery strategy (RMAN), Import/Export & Data pump, Capacity Planning, Replication (Streams) standby databases, Oracle configuration management, Data guard, database cloning, refresh and patch management.? ? On-call support to users for OS, Ms Outlook, Outlook Express & application.? ? Give support to remote client via team viewer & go-to-access tool.? ? Managing DNS Records. Applying security policy.? ? Established Disaster Recovery for Oracle 11g RAC database using Data Guard. ? ? Hands on experience using Rman active duplicate form database migration and database refresh.? ? Expert in delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, ORADEBUG, 12c OEM Grid monitoring. ? ? Extensive experience in designing Logical and Physical data models for new developments using ERwin modeler. ? ? Experience in installing, configuring and maintaining Audit Vault and Database Firewall. ? ? Setup/Managing Databases on Amazon RDS. Monitoring servers thorough Amazon Cloud Watch, SNS.? ? MySQL Database backup (Hot/Cold) and recovery, repair and optimize tables, ? ? MySQL Database security, creating users and managing permissions.? ? Server's, Domain's and Database's migration on Amazon Web Services.? ? Log Analysis, Maintaining documents of production server error log's reports.? ? Providing data for weekly and monthly report to senior management.? ? Monitor Production Server Health of different parameters (CPU Load, Physical Memory, Swap? ? Memory, Hard disk, Mysql service, Http service and response time) via MRTG, Nagios.? ? Experience in using 10g features Flash-Back Recovery, Data Pump, AWR, ASM, ADDM, ASH, Recycle Bin, 10g Grid Monitoring.? ? Expert in using Oracle development tools such as Tool for Oracle Application Development (TOAD), Oracle Reports builder, SQL developer, SQL* Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Crystal reports, PeopleSoft and PL/SQL Developer. ? ? Knowledge using SSIS to migrate data from Oracle to Microsoft Dynamics CRM.? ? Running Packages in Oracle using SSIS.? ? Skilled in cross platform migrations from Windows to Linux, Solaris to Linux and Linux to Unix. ? ? Deep knowledge and hand on experience on Oracle Database Vault, Data Encryption and other Oracle Security related features. ? ? Expertise in creating Oracle Tables, Table Partitions, Views, and Materialized Views. ? ? Experience with SQL, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, triggers, cursors, functions, packages, UNIX Shell Scripting, Indexes, Logical and Physical database design to implement the business logic. ? ? Designed and developed database applications and data warehousing for business intelligence. ? ? Ability to coordinate in a team as well as to work individually.? ? Good experience in applying Patches (Patching), Critical Patch Update (CPU) /Patch Set Update (PSU) and One-off Patches using O-Patch and run installer, also involved in Upgrading and Migration of a Oracle server to higher version available. ? ? Oracle Database capacity planning, space management, storage allocation and different type of storage structure.? ? Involved in each phase of life cycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, technical design, development, system integration phase, quality assurance phase, development and production support activities.? ? Extensive hands on experience with Oracle Cluster ware, MC/Service Guard and configuration with Oracle 10g and 11g RAC. Strong skills on Data guard.? ? Developed database monitoring/health check alert scripts for database uptime/downtime status, and sizing issues using grid control (OEM) and extensively used Oracle Enterprise Manager to do the daily tasks regarding the performance, maintenance.? ? Experience in installing, configuring, administering, managing oracle databases, implementing solutions like High Availability (HA), Disaster & Recovery, Cloning, and Database Security. ? ? Hands on experience in Oracle 10g/11gRAC implementation &administration (Oracle Cluster-ware setup and configuration, RAC Installation using ASM, Grid Installation.), Patching, RAC Backup, adding a node to this cluster database for High Availability and Recovery. ? ? Experience with Real Application Testing (RAT) Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Johnson & Johnson - Somerset, NJ - March 2015 to Present current contract is ending Database Administrator, Database Developer Emblem Health - Rochester, NY - January 2012 to March 2015 Professional Summary? ? Expert knowledge in installing oracle database server on HP-UX, AIX, LINUX and migration of oracle server from 10g to 11g and 12c.? Strong experience in implementing ORACLE STREAMS, and two types of standby databases supported by logical standby and physical standby. ? Hands On experience in implementing Data masking policies for protecting the sensitive data in the database.? Extensive knowledge on database backup/recovery strategy (RMAN), Import/Export & Data pump, Capacity Planning, Replication (Streams) standby databases, Oracle configuration management, Data guard, database cloning, refresh and patch management.? Established Disaster Recovery for Oracle 11g RAC database using Data Guard. ? Hands on experience using rman active duplicate form database migration and database refresh.? Expert in delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, ORADEBUG, 12c OEM Grid monitoring. ? Extensive experience in designing Logical and Physical data models for new developments using ERwin modeler. ? Experience in installing, configuring and maintaining Audit Vault and Database Firewall. ? Experience in using 10g features Flash-Back Recovery, Data Pump, AWR, ASM, ADDM, ASH, Recycle Bin, 10g Grid Monitoring.? Expert in using Oracle development tools such as Tool for Oracle Application Development (TOAD), Oracle Reports builder, SQL developer, SQL* Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Crystal reports and PL/SQL Developer. ? Skilled in cross platform migrations from Windows to Linux, Solaris to Linux. ? Deep knowledge and hand on experience on Oracle Database Vault, Data Encryption and other Oracle Security related features. ? Expertise in creating Oracle Tables, Table Partitions, Views, and Materialized Views. ? Experience with SQL, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, triggers, cursors, functions, packages, UNIX Shell Scripting, Indexes, Logical and Physical database design to implement the business logic. ? Designed and developed database applications and data warehousing for business intelligence. ? Ability to coordinate in a team as well as to work individually.? Good experience in applying Patches (Patching), Critical Patch Update (CPU) /Patch Set Update (PSU) and One-off Patches using O-Patch and run installer, also involved in Upgrading and Migration of a Oracle server to higher version available. ? Oracle Database capacity planning, space management, storage allocation and different type of storage structure.? Involved in each phase of life cycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, technical design, development, system integration phase, quality assurance phase, development and production support activities.? Extensive hands on experience with Oracle Cluster ware, MC/Service Guard and configuration with Oracle 10g and 11g RAC. Strong skills on Data guard.? Developed database monitoring/health check alert scripts for database uptime/downtime status, and sizing issues using grid control (OEM) and extensively used Oracle Enterprise Manager to do the daily tasks regarding the performance, maintenance.? Experience in installing, configuring, administering, managing oracle databases, implementing solutions like High Availability (HA), Disaster & Recovery, Cloning, and Database Security. ? Hands on experience in Oracle 10g/11gRAC implementation &administration (Oracle Cluster-ware setup and configuration, RAC Installation using ASM, Grid Installation.), Patching, RAC Backup, adding a node to this cluster database for High Availability and Recovery. ? Experience with Real Application Testing (RAT)? ? Technical Skills? ? Databases? Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c? Database Tools? Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Log miner, Statspack/AWR, Shareplex Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Oracle Migration Workbench, ERwin, QDesigner, Remedy? Operating Systems? MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX? Hardware? Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage , Sun Enterprise Servers 890/880/420/450, Sun StorEdge 6320, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers, Compaq Servers 6000/3000/1600/800, HP/UX-9000, Red Hat Linux 6.2? ? Professional Experience? ? Role: Oracle Database Administrator? Brontech Solutions - Greenbelt, Md.? Jan 2012 ? Present? ? Upgrading Goldengate versions from 11g to 12c and converting Extracts/Replicats from classic to integrated mode. ? Converted Goldengate Classic replicat to Co-ordinated replicat to improve the throughput of golden gate apply. ? Building and maintaining Oracle Stand by databases, both Active Dataguard for real-time replication and normal Dataguard for disaster recovery.? Created and monitored Virtual Private Database (VPD) policies for securing sensitive data in PI tables. ? Installed and configured Oracle Audit Vault and Database firewall in non-production environment as a proof of concept. ? Configured Database Vault and implemented Realms and command rules for fine grained access control on database objects and restricting super users from accessing the sensitive data. ? Pro-Active Monitoring of the Databases using 11g and 12c Enterprise Manager (OEM) and working on Root Cause Analysis and documenting the issue resolution steps for future reference.? Applied the Clusterware (GI), Database (RDBMS) Patches i.e PSU patches and one-off patches (for Bug resolution) using opatch? 24 X 7 Production database administration, support and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution of database issues. ? Responsible for installation of Oracle Clusterware (CRS ) also referred as Grid Infrastructure from 11g and creating the RAC and Standalone databases. ? Loading huge datasets into the database using SQL Loader during ETL operations. ? Database refresh from production to lower environments using cascade standby and masking data for Dry runs before the production releases. ? Responsible for optimizing sql queries and tuning the long running queries as a part of performance improvisation. ? Tuning performance of the database using tools like STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, SQL TRACE, AWR and ADDM reports. ? Writing UNIX shell scripts for the automation of RMAN backups, and Import and export procedures ? Worked on Database Wallet and TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) for Encrypting the Sensitive data using column encryption and tablespace encryption. ? Testing the functionality of Key Vault in storing the TDE wallet keys from all the non-production databases as a proof of concept. ? Providing the Go-live and Post -golive Support for the database performance related issues and Ensure that all the work is documented for future reference. ? Backup Oracle DBA for two major projects involving periodic administration, troubleshooting & tuning of 10 Oracle databases (10g & 11g single instances running on both IBM AIX 5.3, SunOS 5.8 & HP-UX B.11.11.? Worked extensively on Performance Tuning, Memory (SGA) Tuning, Net backup, EMC (Time finder and SRDF), RAID, RAW Devices? Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration? Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g export/import utility and Oracle 11g exp/imp data pump.? Analyzing schema of databases created to collect statistics using the DBMS STATS package.? Use AWR/ADDM for 10g Statistics management & database tuning following creation of new databases and periodically thereafter.? Cloned databases using scripts as well as RMAN. Installation, setup and configuration of Data guard? Involved in fresh installation of 11.2.0.1 and 11.2.0.2 and 11.2.0.3 RAC databases on ASM and NFS file systems.? Involved in design and enforcing of standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance? Refreshed schema using Export/Import. Created the database, tablespace, tables, indexes, set privileges and user logins? Worked on in house installation of Oracle on different platforms, loaded user data to reproduce the problem, applied new Oracle patch, managed database backup using RMAN, upgraded Oracle database 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.1? Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import. Creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins. ? Analyzed SQL queries causing performance problems. ? Supported Oracle DB backups (online/offline), logical backups and UNIX scripts, created clone databases, configured standby database, performed DBA day-to-day activities? Troubleshoot installation errors both independently and with Oracle support (via My oracle Support)? Create oracle databases on configured servers using both the DBCA & Database creation scripts.? Manage, tune and troubleshoot database issues both on UNIX command line, SQL*Plus, OEM client, Oracle 10g database control, oracle 10g Grid Control as well as other third party tools (TOAD, SQLDeveloper, DBArtisan and dbXpert for Oracle).? Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both OEM (client), Oracle 10g database control & SQL*Plus, as well as pre-developed UNIX shell scripts.? ? Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2) , DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN? Role: Oracle Database Administrator? Brontech Solutions - Greenbelt, Md.? Jan 2012 ? Present? ? Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.? Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.? Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs. ? Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.? Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g/10g to 10gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.? Maintain the Oracle 10g RAC environment and troubleshoot performance problems. ? Ensured efficient management of Oracle database storage (extents, segments, rollback segments, temporary segments etc) for optimal database performance. ? Backup and recovery of databases: automated backups on Windows NT and UNIX servers. ? Created and administered database users and privileges. ? Performed database performance tuning for Oracle: Tuned SQL statements, Memory. Utilization - databases (SGA: db_cache, shared pool, Library pool, dictionary pool & PGA). ? Installed, configured and administered Real Application Cluster databases. ? Administered OS file system utilization, monitoring, swap usage, CPU utilization, file I/O, and network tracing for Oracle. ? Performed troubleshooting, and resolution of complex database problems by closely monitoring, diagnosing and tuning database performance issues; identified problems and implemented solutions; ensured database was running at optimal speed and efficiently tuned and optimized Database Buffer cache, db_cache, PGA, Library cache, Dictionary cache, SQL statements using scripts, Oracle Statspack, Oracle trace, TKPROF, OEM, spotlight, Toad and DBArtisan. ? Created and administered database users, roles, privileges and profiles.? Used log miner for auditing Oracle databases, and to easily locate changes and analyzed database object changes, as well as to rollback logical data corruptions or user errors.? Reorganized database structure as needed: Automate procedures at regular intervals; used scripts to reorganize or de-fragment database table spaces, tables, and indexes. ? Managed multi-node clustered and non-clustered databases in a replicated and non-replicated environments running on UNIX raw devices and file systems.? Creation and configuration of Hot Standby Database and Data Guard across multiple servers.? Developed, deployed and maintained database backup/recovery environment (Cold and Hot) using RMAN and scripts. Responded quickly to refresh data; verified of correct backup strategy. ? Provided database support to developers, QA teams, and production users. ? Performed Monitoring file system space utilization, databases and verified efficient use of disk storage? Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.? Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.? Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.? Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.? Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.? Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.? Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4.? Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.? Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.? Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.? Provided 24X7support for all the production and development databases.? Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using ?runInstaller? and perl based utility ?opatch?.? Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using DatapumpExport/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.? Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.? ? Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Education Bachelor's in Architecture University of the District of Columbia - Washington, DC August 2011 to Present Graphic Systems and Technology Oxon Hill High School - Oxon Hill, MD
Senior Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Architect;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Senior Database Administrator Senior Database Administrator - The RealReal Brooklyn, NY - MCSA: SQL Server [?] certified with over 10 years of experience in database administration and data analysis across multiple industries - including eCommerce, online media, VoIP, travel and education. Highly proficient in T-SQL writing and database design. Excellent problem solving skills, reliable and very detail oriented.? ? ? MCSA: SQL Server [?] Certified? ? Extensive experience with MS SQL Server 2016 / 2014 / 2012 / 2008 R2 / 2008 / 2005 / 2000? ? Experience with Performance Tuning / Query Optimization? ? Experience with Azure SQL Data Warehouse / Data Factory? ? Experience with Amazon Web Services administration? ? Proficient in database design / analysis? ? ? Cluster Set-Up & Management / Replication / Mirroring / Log Shipping / High Availability / Disaster Recovery? ? ETL creation and optimization using SSIS / DTS packages? ? SSRS report creation and enhancement? ? SSAS - Cube maintenance and XLA querying? ? Knowledge working with other database products (MySQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL) Work Experience Senior Database Administrator The RealReal - New York, NY - April 2016 to Present Administer multiple servers and databases within the Amazon Web Services suite, working with many features including RDS, EC2, Redshift, S3 and OpWorks? ? Optimize data warehouse ETL process to improve both speed and scalability? ? Improve disaster recovery process by creating PowerShell and Linux shell scripts to automate image backups and recovery procedures? ? Work extensively with the BI team to optimize Looker reports and dashboards, as well as writing SQL queries to create meaningful target audiences for marketing? ? Proactively monitor servers across multiple environments on a 24x7 basis Database Administrator Mediabrix - New York, NY - March 2015 to April 2016 Redesigned data ingestion / processing pipeline using Azure SQL Data Warehouse and Data Factory, leveraging polybase for BLOB ingestion? ? Utilized machine learning linear regression to predict engagement likelihood for smart ad serving? ? Optimized and refactored main data processing stored procedure to improve performance? ? Created dynamic partitioning stored procedures to manage new partition creations and data auto-archiving? ? Implemented server activity monitors and daily summaries to help with proactive server monitoring? ? Evaluated various reporting tools including Datazen, PowerBI and QlikView, creating POC dashboard reports in each? ? Enhanced and maintained multiple SSAS Cubes for reporting? ? Proactively monitored servers across multiple environments on a 24x7 basis Database Architect Vente-Privee with American Express - New York, NY - January 2014 to January 2015 Oversaw and led the database design portion for all new eCommerce-driven projects, including the waitlist functionality which increased limited sales by 30%? ? Assisted in determining project and technical specifications for new features within the website? ? Created SSRS reports through Report Builder to provide visibility to company metrics and inventory movements? ? Coordinated with third party warehouse vendor to enhance data workflow and resolve all data inconsistencies? ? Built and refactored SSIS packages to better transfer data across multiple SQL instances? ? Handled and reviewed all SQL deployments within a continuous integration environment? ? Enhanced and maintained multiple SSAS Cubes for reporting? ? Proactively monitored servers across multiple environments on a 24x7 basis Database Administrator Vibrant Media - New York, NY - October 2011 to January 2014 Designed and maintained a more efficient ETL process for data sync between SQL Server and MySQL to lessen redundant data flow and network load? ? Implemented a dynamic table partition architecture to reduce duplication of code? ? Successfully migrated production SQL Server instance from one server to another, including new server set up and restoration? ? Reviewed and deployed all SQL release code for each scrum cycle using agile methodology? ? Worked with data analytics team to provide more understandable data to satisfy the company's reporting needs? ? Proactively monitored servers across multiple environments and datacenters in London, Amsterdam, New York and San Francisco on a 24x7 basis? ? Managed multiple 1TB+ databases across 2-node and 3-node clusters. Responsible for new server set up as well as security administration, replication, backup/restore, mirroring and disaster recovery? ? Administered other relational as well as no-sql databases (MySQL and MongoDB) Database Administrator M5 Networks - New York, NY - November 2010 to October 2011 Led project to migrate production SQL Server instance between 2 data centers, including new server set up and restoration? ? Maintained high availability 2-node cluster, including new instance set up and node addition? ? Optimized applications and ETL queries to improve performance? ? Monitored production/QA/development servers across multiple datacenters in New York and Chicago on a 24x7 basis? ? Performed database backups/restorations as well as created disaster recovery procedure, utilizing cluster failover and database mirroring? ? Responsible for the installation, configuration, upgrade and maintenance of SQL Servers, including 2000, 2005, 2008 and 2008R2? ? Established transactional and merge replication across multiple servers? ? Familiar with Reporting Service set up and configuration? ? Administered other relational database management systems (MySQL and PostgreSQL)? ? Assisted with minor Linux system administration, including DNS updates and script modifications Database Administrator Sabre Holdings / Travelocity - New York, NY - March 2007 to November 2010 Designed and optimized SQL Server database models for all new and existing data structures using ERwin Data Modeler, including a price comparison tool which generates over $20 million annually? ? Set up and maintained transactional replication across a network of read-only servers? ? Created disaster recovery warm standby server using log shipping from the primary server? ? Automated recurring functions through the creation of database jobs, DTS packages and Perl scripting? ? Performed tuning and optimization for all new and existing data queries, stored procedures and UDFs? ? Built and designed web applications using C# in ASP.NET, JavaScript and AJAX? ? Improved site search web service using Lucene/JAVA/Apache Tomcat Education Bachelor of Engineering in Chemical Engineering in Chemical Engineering Stevens Institute of Technology Bachelor of Science in Chemistry in Chemistry New York University Certifications/Licenses MCSA: SQL Server 2012/2014 June 2017 to Present
Database Administrator:::Database Administrator San Antonio, TX - Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator United States Marine Corps - August 2005 to March 2013 Education BS University of the Incarnate Word Skills Programming, Data Entry, C++, Linux, Quality Assurance, Web Design, Windows, Sharepoint, CSS, Risk Management, HTML, Javascript Military Service Service Country: United States Branch: Marine Corps Rank: Sergeant August 2005 to March 2013 Database administrator? 3270 Programmer Commendations: Several individual commendations for superior achievement of duties. Awards Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal March 2013 Implementing new training programs, therefore reducing government cost to local subordinate units saving an estimated $1.2 million to taxpayers. Certifications/Licenses Secret Security Clearance Additional Information UIW Men's Lacrosse Team Captain [?]? Golden Key Honor Society [?]? B.S Computer Information Systems ? G.P.A 3.26
Database Specialist:::Database Specialist Database Specialist Shelby, MI - Medical coding and billing student seeks position at a medical office in order to gain valuable experience and provide necessary coding skills to the practice. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Specialist Ministry of Electricity - Baghdad, IQ - September 2000 to March 2011 Responsible for the printing of books and engineering reports in the Department of Stations and publishing to affiliated Internet websites.? ? Responsible for sending and receiving correspondence and technical engineering contracts and fees between companies.? ? Responsible for sending the monthly spreadsheet tables for engineering work? ? Reported for all of the Ministry of Power stations in Baghdad and surrounding cities. Education High School Diploma Penn Foster High School - Scranton, PA December 2015 Skills Accounting (Less than 1 year), Billing (Less than 1 year), Bookkeeping (Less than 1 year), CMS (Less than 1 year), Collection (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills:? ? CPT, ICD- 10, HCPCS ? CMS 1500, UB04 ? Medical Billing Software? ? Electronic Health Records ? Charting ? Patient Registration? ? Scheduling ? HIPAA ? Patient Eligibility? ? Billing Statements ? Basic Accounting ? Basic Bookkeeping? ? Fee Collection ? Data entry ? Customer Service? ? Fluent in English ? Fluent in Arabic ? Microsoft Word? ? Microsoft Excel ? Telephone Etiquette ? Billing Documentation
Database analyst:::Database analyst Database analyst Bloomington, MN - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database analyst Ten K Solar - November 2010 to May 2017 Create multiple SQL databases to meet needs of management and engineering? ? Used C# to automate data import from FTP syncs, web sites and a variety of other data files into SQL? ? Wrote SQL reports to support engineering, marketing, and sales staff? ? Provided training in the use and capabilities of SQL to upper management and engineering? ? Supported transition to a new inventory management system (PLEX)? ? Supported product development data collection? ? Wrote standardized procedures? ? Set up wireless networks for customer use? ? Shipping/Receiving Clerk? ? Confirmed incoming products met specifications? ? Maintained shipping records for inventory control? ? Prepared international shipments and paperwork? ? Forklift driver? ? Manufacturing Technician? ? Installed circuit boards and assembled finished solar panels? ? Performed quality control testing of circuit boards and solar panels before and after final assembly, and maintain testing records? ? Performed statistical analysis on the data from the quality control reference solar panel? ? Independent Contractor - Biomedical synergies? ? Upgraded websites to Sharepoint 2010? ? Backed up old databases and restored them on another server? ? May 2013 - July 2013 Education BS in Statistics Kansas State University August 2010 Skills C# (6 years), C (Less than 1 year), Minitab (Less than 1 year), SAS (Less than 1 year), SQL (6 years) Additional Information Computer Skills:? Programming Languages: SQL, C#, C++? Statistics programs: Minitab, SAS, R
Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator - Marriott Vacations Worldwide Lakeland, FL - An Oracle Database Administrator with over 6 years of experience which includes Installation, Configuration, Migration, Database Backup & Recovery, data guard implementation, Tuning at Instance level and SQL level, Cloning, Space Management, Database Security, Auditing, Troubleshooting, Managing Oracle 10g /11g R2/12c databases and documentation in heterogeneous environments. Worked on various Oracle versions like 10g, 11g, 12c Databases across various platforms such as Solaris, AIX, UNIX, Linux, HP and Windows Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Marriott Vacations Worldwide - Lakeland, FL - March 2014 to Present Environment: Oracle 12c/11g/10g, Linux, Solaris, SQL Developer, PL/SQL, Shell scripting (Bourne), OEM, Statspack, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, DataPump.? ? Responsibilities:?  Providing database administrative support and 24x7 on call support for production, development oracle 12c/11g databases on Red Hat Linux 5.0 and oracle enterprise Linux 5.5?  Experience with large databases (1.5 Tb) for OLTP and OLAP applications.?  Administration and supporting of Oracle RAC 11g/12c Databases ranging from 100GB to 6TB.?  Installation, upgradation, configuration and troubleshooting GoldenGate 11G/12C software.?  Configured GoldenGate components for unidirectional and bidirectional replications and maintain data synchronization.?  Monitoring and Performance tuning of GoldenGate sessions at Database level and GGSCI level and investigate replication failures using LogDump utility.?  Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.?  Making structural changes to the databases. Sizing database objects for effective space management and optimal performance.?  Managing database security.?  Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.?  Installed and configured Oracle (10g&11g R2) databases on Linux 5, HP-Unix 11.X.?  Migrated the database from existing Oracle 10g to Oracle 11g and Upgradation of database (from 10.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.2)?  Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle 11g/10g RAC with ASM and single instance database and Administrated Real Application Cluster (RAC) databases running on Cluster File system.?  Applied Critical Patch Updates and Patch Set Update (CPU/PSU) on various platforms using Universal Installer and OPatch Utility.?  Utilized Grid Control, ASM and Flashback tools to administer multi-node RAC database.?  Defragmentation of tables and indexes for improved performance and effective space management.?  Have touch-point calls with offshore team and make sure all issues happens in off business hours are addressed with sense of urgency.?  Setup the unidirectional replication on oracle 11g databases using Goldengate.?  Monitoring and troubleshooting the gaps between source and target databases configured with goldengate.?  Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.?  Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.?  Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.?  Managed Database Maintenance Activities to achieve optimum database uptime.?  Configuration of Listener and Tnsnames.?  Doing the regular activities like monitoring the alert logs, redo log status, listener. Log and checking the space for normal segments, rollback segments and tablespaces?  Implemented Disaster Recovery database 10g/11gData Guard on physical standby database in maximum performance mode using LGWR ASYNC mode.?  Monitored and optimized database performance using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid control.?  Performed database backups with RMAN incremental and cumulative backups by registering 10g/11g databases in recovery catalog.?  Performed complete and incomplete database recovery, data file and table space point in time (TSPITR) recoveries using RMAN and user managed backups..?  Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization..?  SQL query tuning using reports generated by tools like StatsPack, TKPROF and SQL*Trace and Explain Plan?  Performed database tuning using Explain plan, Stats Pack, TKPROF, SQL tuning advisor, SQL access advisor, SQL planned management tools and AWR (automatic workload repository), ADDM (automatic database diagnostic monitor) and ASH reports and performed database tuning based on the recommendations suggested by ADDM reports.?  Experience in working with oracle support in resolving ORA 0600 / ORA-07445 errors and creating SR's.?  Expertise in storage management by managing space, table spaces, segments and extents, Rollback segments and data dictionary.?  Performed other Oracle DBA responsibilities performance tuning, monitoring tablespaces, monitoring users, etc. as well as much problem solving.?  Designed Logical and physical database for business transaction functionality.?  Provide production support for the deployed project till it is stabilized.?  Written SQL scripts to create database objects like tables, views and sequences.?  Created procedures and functions using PL/SQL.?  Preparation of High Level & Low Level Design documents. Oracle Database Administrator State Farm - Phoenix, AZ - December 2011 to February 2014 Responsibilities:?  Analyzed and tuned the Database to identify potential database issues such as response delay, locking contention, even server down time by using tools like STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, and TKPROF.?  Implemented Data Guard on Oracle 11g with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests.?  Using Oracle Data Pump utility making faster exports/imports on large databases and saving lot of time.?  Monitoring several databases varying Terra byte sizes using Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control.?  Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.?  Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.?  Used TOAD for database management.?  Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.?  24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.?  Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.?  Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.?  Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.?  Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.?  Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).?  Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).?  Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.?  Worked on user management mainly on grants, privileges, roles and profiles.?  Worked closely with project managers, programmers, and testers to ensure the database integrity and security and generated test data and tested new database consistency with existing databases to meet the functionalities requirements?  Involved in query optimization and using rule based optimizers and cost based optimizers.?  Performed database performance tuning, STATSPACK reports automation, stress test on production copy for scalability, resolving production performance issues.? ? Environment: Oracle 10.1.0.4/10.2.0.4/11gR2, RHEL 5 and 6, Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control, OEM Database control, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting,, TOAD.? ? TECHNICAL ENVIRONMENTS Skills Database (6 years), Maintenance (6 years), OEM (6 years), Oracle (6 years), AWR (6 years), RMAN (6 years), ADDM (6 years) Certifications/Licenses OCA October 2016 to Present Additional Information SKILLS? ?  Extensive experience with Database Cloning and Refreshing pre-prod/dev databases with prod/pre-prod databases.?  Installed RAC 11g on 3 node cluster for large production system and migrated the legacy system from Non-RAC environment to RAC 11g cluster database.?  Installed and configured EM Central Grid control (OEM Grid) to administer and manage large number of databases and enterprise wide targets.?  Installation, Upgradation, Configuration and Troubleshooting GoldenGate 11g/12c software.?  Configured GoldenGate Classic and Integrated components for Active-Passive and Active-Active?  Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics.?  Strong experience in migrating database from Non-ASM to ASM and Non-RAC to RAC.?  Administered Oracle ASM disk groups (mirroring, compatibility) with Oracle ASM Configuration Assistant (ASMCA)?  Proficiency with Installation and maintenance of replication tool Golden Gate by creating extract process, extract pump, and replicate.?  Experience in Multitenant Databases (Oracle 12c Container and pluggable databases)?  Experience working on POC of 12c new features like Redaction policy, adaptive query optimization, multiple indexes on single column, Restore table through RMAN etc?  Able to resolve the performance issue in database 12c using automatic big data caching, full database caching and In-Memory Aggregation features.?  Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.?  Laid hands on new tools and experienced features like Data Replay, Log Miner and Flashback data Archive, Schema Management, Data guard and RMAN in Oracle 11g.?  Skilled in developing RMAN scripts for database back up including hot and cold backup options for both RAC and standalone instances.?  Worked extensively on created development, testing, staging, production, RAC and standby databases for OLTP and Data Warehousing using customized shell scripts and stepwise.?  Excellent knowledge in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery, Cloning of databases using RMAN, VERITAS Net Backup and Experienced in Linux and Solaris using 11g network configuration (NETCA) Listeners , PL/SQL,UNIX Shell Programming.?  Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.?  Experience in Data Migrations.?  Performed Upgrade and Migration of Oracle databases from oracle 10g to 11g & 12c.?  Applied PSU/CPU Patches, ASM Patches, Grid Infrastructure Patches, Online Patches, one-off Patches and rolling patches.?  Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.?  Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".?  Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.?  Clusters (RAC) and Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and Data guard and Streams.?  Good exposure of Oracle DBA tasks Installation, Patching, Cloning, and Upgrade of Oracle Databases.?  Strong Knowledge and experience of Creating Users, Public Synonyms, materialized views, Database Links, roles, profiles, privileges, Audit Triggers and assigning roles to users.? ? OPERATING SYSTEMS: Red Hat Linux RHEL 5.x and Windows XP? RDBMS: Oracle 11g/10g? LANGUAGES: SQL, PL/SQL,UNIX Shell Scripting, Ksh, bash and Perl Scripting? ? SOFTWARE/ APPLICATIONS/TOOLS: DBCA, DBUA, Recovery Manager (RMAN), Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), OEM Grid Control, Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Management Service (OMS), Real Application Clusters (RAC),? Oracle GoldenGate, ASM, Sql Navigator, TOAD, Data Pump (expdp,impdp),SRVCTL,SQL*Plus? TUNING TOOLS: SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, ASH and ADDM
Database Developer:::Database Developer DeBary, FL - Work Experience Database Developer Preps Dance School & Company - DeLand, FL - August 2013 to Present Created databases, analyzed databases, created other organizational document, wrote marketing material, customer service Education BA & BS in History & BSAN Stetson University - DeLand, FL August 2013 to May 2017 Skills Microsoft Office (7 years), SQL (2 years), Excel (7 years), Customer Service (4 years), Written Communication (7 years), Database Management (3 years), Data Entry (3 years), Data Analysis (3 years), Data Mining (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Business Analysis December 2016 to Present IIBA Certified through course work at Stetson University Project Management Professional (PMP) December 2015 to Present Through coursework at Stetson University Additional Information 3-year Division 1 Student-athlete? 2-time ASUN All Conference Academic Team
Database administrator:::Database administrator Database administrator Bronx, NY - ? Recent College graduate offering a strong academic background in IT combined with? excellent internship experience as an database developer.? ? Consistently recognized for technical troubleshooting skills used to rapidly resolve? challenging technical issues.? ? Quick learner in mastering new technology; equally successful in both self-directed and? team environments, and proficient in a range of computer systems, languages, and tools? methodologies.? ? Languages known: HTML, CSS, JAVA, JAVASCRIPT, SASS, Python, jQuery, ReactJS,? AngularJS, Ruby, Ruby on Rails, Git, SQL, PHP, API, ABAP. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database administrator NYCTWA - Long Island City, NY - February 2015 to May 2016 Education B.S in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Lehman College - Bronx, NY June 2017 A.A in Liberal Arts in Liberal Arts Hostos Community College - Bronx, NY June 2014 High School Diploma Hostos Lincoln Academy - Bronx, NY June 2014
Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Owings Mills, MD - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Uptick Systems - Gaithersburg, MD Focused and knowledgeable Entry Level Database Administrator with over one year of experience in a classroom setting with the Oracle Relational Database Management System (RDBMS). Proven ability with installing and configuring Oracle database software releases and applying related patches on Linux Platforms. Highly competent in creating, and upgrading databases manually and using DBCA and DBUA utilities. Experienced in using Recovery Manager (RMAN) for full and incremental backups, as well as point-in-time recovery.? ? CORE QUALIFICATIONS? * Exceptional expertise in Sybase Oracle and SQL Server? * Superior familiarity with LINUX and Windows operating systems? * Proficiency in relational database management? * Outstanding facility with load balancers routers and switches? * Excellent knowledge of database installation and configuration principles? * Experience in database architecture and program design? * Good communication and interpersonal skills? ? TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE? * Installation, Upgrading and Managing Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c Databases? * Hands on experience with Performance tuning using AWR, ADDM and ASH, Backup and Recovery? * Database backup and recovery using RMAN? * Export and Import using both traditional import/export and datapump? * Experienced in data migration efforts using Oracle utilities like SQL loader, and data.? * Database user security design and policies enforcement through roles, resource profiles, usage audits, among others? * Database migration, upgrade and PSU patching? * Experience in managing databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)? ? Tools and Applications? * Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN)? * SSH? * VMware? ? Oracle Database Administrator? * Installs, configures and maintains oracle 10g and 11g databases in test and development environments.? * Upgrades Oracle databases to 11.2.0.3 and 12.1.0.2, and applies quarterly PSU patches? * Refreshes development database from production using datapump export and import.? * Help resolve various database-related issues and customer requests.? * Creates tablespaces and plans the location of data, index, undo tablespaces redo log files and control files in adherence to the Optimal Flexible Architecture.? * Sizing database objects for effective space management and optimal performance.? * Proactively monitors hit ratios on different components of the SGA, including tuning of the shared pool, databases buffers and redo buffers.? * Analyzes tables on a regular basis for the Oracle optimizer.? * Performs level 0 and 1 database backup using RMAN? * Supplements database backups with datapump export? * Recovers database recovery when necessary.? * Deploys database scripts on both production and non-production environments? * Performs Oracle database, SQL and application tuning and monitoring using partitioning, AWR, ASH and ADDM? * Administers Oracle database, including design and creation of schema objects, integrity constraints, users and roles.? * Creates tablespaces, manage storage allocations by adding datafiles, create redo log files to reduce I/O from frequent checkpoints to achieve optimal performance for transactions.? * Creates database users, roles, privileges and manages passwords. Education Security Certification Baltimore City Community College 2017 to July 2017 Catonsville Community College - Catonsville, MD 2016 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/william-swann-237304127 Certifications/Licenses OCA March 2017 to March 2020 Oracle Admin 1 Certification and SQL Fundamentals 1 Additional Information I am a People person who is willing to learn.
Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator - Professional Software, Inc Virginia Beach, VA - Oracle Certified Professional with over twenty five years experience in computer programming and Oracle database management.? Oracle Certified Professional in Oracle 10g and 11g, Oracle Certified Expert (OCE) in 11g Performance Tuning, and Real Application Clusters (RAC) 11g and Grid Infrastructure OCE.? ? Experienced in Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control, Recovery Manager (RMAN), Real Application Clusters. Experienced in the development of graphical user interfaces across multiple platforms and environments using Visual Basic. Experienced in various Information Technology fields including Department of Homeland Security, DoD military contracts, banking, small business, and insurance. Possess outstanding abilities in analysis, research, and problem solving. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Professional Software, Inc - Norfolk, VA - June 2016 to Present Provides 24X7 support to Oracle 11g databases for the Norfolk Naval Shipyard Data Center. Creates, monitors, and maintains Oracle 11gR2 databases, single instance databases, and custom database applications, thereby improving database availability. Creates and maintain SQL scripts to automate routine database maintenance tasks. Installs Oracle Critical Patch Updates and custom database applications ensuring that the databases are protected against known threats and have current bug fixes. Works with customers as needed to ensure that their needs and requirements are met. Performs performance tuning when necessary on customer databases.? Environment: Oracle 11gR2, SQL, Toad, Citrix, Linux, Solaris, Windows Oracle Database Administrator ManTech International - Norfolk, VA - January 2016 to June 2016 Provides 24X7 support to Oracle 11g databases for the Norfolk Naval Shipyard Data Center. Creates, monitors, and maintains Oracle 11gR2 databases, single instance databases, and custom database applications, thereby improving database availability. Creates and maintain SQL scripts to automate routine database maintenance tasks. Installs Oracle Critical Patch Updates and custom database applications ensuring that the databases are protected against known threats and have current bug fixes. Works with customers as needed to ensure that their needs and requirements are met. Performs performance tuning when necessary on customer databases.? Environment: Oracle 11gR2, SQL, Toad, Citrix, Linux, Solaris, Windows Oracle Database Administrator Computer Sciences Corporation - Stennis Space Center, MS - August 2013 to August 2015 Provides 24X7 support to Oracle 11g databases for the Department of Homeland Security Data Center. Creates, monitors, and maintains Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) databases, single instance databases, and database servers, thereby improving database availability. Uses RMAN to do database backups without taking down the database and allowing for reliable database recovery. Creates and maintain SQL scripts to automate routine database maintenance tasks. Installs Oracle Critical Patch Updates ensuring that the databases are protected against known threats and have current bug fixes. Works with customers as needed to ensure that their needs and requirements are met. Performs performance tuning when necessary on customer databases.? Environment: Oracle 11g, RAC, RMAN, SQL, OEM, Grid Control, Data Guard, VM Ware, Remedy, Linux, Solaris, Windows Oracle Database Administrator KForce Temporary Staffing - Stennis Space Center, MS - January 2013 to August 2013 Provides 24X7 support to Oracle 11g databases for the Department of Homeland Security Data Center. Creates, monitors, and maintains Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) databases, single instance databases, and database servers, thereby improving database availability. Uses RMAN to do database backups without taking down the database and allowing for reliable database recovery. Creates and maintain SQL scripts to automate routine database maintenance tasks. Installs Oracle Critical Patch Updates ensuring that the databases are protected against known threats and have current bug fixes. Works with customers as needed to ensure that their needs and requirements are met. Performs performance tuning when necessary on customer databases.? Environment: Oracle 11g, RAC, RMAN, SQL, OEM, Grid Control, Data Guard, VM Ware, Remedy, Linux, Solaris, Windows Oracle Database Administrator SNVC - Fort Bragg, NC - September 2011 to May 2012 Provides 24X7 support to Oracle 10g database for the Army Reserve Command Automation System. Uses RMAN to do database backups without taking down the database and allowing for reliable database recovery. Maintains system security functions, ensuring data integrity. Creates and maintain SQL scripts to automate routine database maintenance tasks. Monitors and maintains various Oracle databases and database servers, thereby improving database availability. Installs and maintains Oracle Data Guard to ensure databases have a reliable clone of the database. Installs Oracle Critical Patch Updates ensuring that the databases are protected against known threats and have current bug fixes. Implemented a test environment that is a duplicate of the production environment giving the customer a place to check out code changes before they go into the production database.? Environment: Oracle 10g, RMAN, SQL, OEM, Data Guard, Oracle CPUs, VM Ware, VMS, SSR, Toad, Windows Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Nicholls State University - Thibodaux, LA December 1979 Skills databases (4 years), Linux (4 years), Oracle (4 years), Solaris (4 years), SQL (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS SUMMARY? ? Languages: SQL, Fortran, Cobol, PL/1, Basic, Visual Basic 6? Databases: Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g.? Operating Systems: Solaris, HP/UX, Linux, Windows? Software Programs: Toad, VM Ware. Citrix? Hardware Platform: Solaris, Dell, HP, Compaq, IBM, EMC
Database Manager:::Database Manager Indianapolis, IN - Full-time student of automation and robotics technology at Ivy Tech. Part-time database manager at TeleUnique Inc. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Manager TeleUnique Inc - Indianapolis, IN - January 1999 to Present Compile and maintain sales lead and customer databases.? High-volume data entry.? Payroll and receivables accounting.? Client billing.? Sales and sales team supervision. Education Automation and Robotics Technology Ivy Tech Community College - Indianapolis, IN 2016 to 2018 Skills Hydraulics (Less than 1 year), Electrical circuits (Less than 1 year), Mechanical Drives (Less than 1 year), PLCs (Less than 1 year), Pneumatics (Less than 1 year), Mechatronics (Less than 1 year), Motor controls (Less than 1 year), MySQL (1 year), Japanese Language (5 years), Machining (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses OSHA 10 September 2016 to Present OSHA 10 General Industry MSSC Certified Production Technician December 2016 to Present Groups IEEE Automation and Robotics Society June 2017 to Present Additional Information Advanced Automation and Robotics Technology? AAS expected July 2018? 4.0 GPA? Relevant coursework: Mechatronics I, II, III, IV; PLCs I, II, III; Robotics I, II; Electronics; Fluid Power; Machine maintenance and installation; Motor controls; Machining; CNC setup and operations.
System Analyst/Database Developer;Database Developer/Team Lead;Database Developer;Database Developer;Programmer/Database Developer:::System Analyst/Database Developer Database Developer/PLSQL Developer Woodbridge, VA -  Proficiency with Oracle versions 10g, 11g and 12c. ?  7 years of programming experience as an Oracle PL/SQL Developer in Analysis, Design and Implementation of Business Applications using the Oracle Relational Database Management System (RDBMS).?  Expertise in Client-Server application development using Oracle 11g/10g, PL/SQL, SQL *PLUS, TOAD and SQL*LOADER.?  Effectively made use of Table Functions, Indexes, Table Partitioning, Collections, Analytical functions, Materialized Views, Query Re-Write and Transportable table spaces.?  Experienced with Create Tables, Views, Constraints, Index (B Tree, Bitmap and Function Based).?  Experienced with developed Complex database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers using SQL and PL/SQL.?  Experienced in developing materialized views for data replication in distributed environments.?  Experienced with loaded Data into Oracle Tables using SQL Loader.?  Experienced with partition large Tables using range partition technique.?  Expertise with created Packages and Procedures to automatically drop table indexes and create indexes for the tables.?  Expertise in Dynamic SQL, Collections and Exception handling.?  Good knowledge of key Oracle performance related features such as Query Optimizer, Execution Plans and Indexes.?  Familiar with standard development toolkits including Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS), SQL interpreters (TOAD) etc.?  Experienced in all phases of the SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) from analysis, design, development, testing, implementation and maintenance with timely delivery against aggressive deadlines.?  Good knowledge in a UNIX/Linux environment and developing shell scripts.?  Experienced in design and develop Oracle forms & reports.?  Experienced work with Agile Development team.?  Experienced with data modeling tools Erwin, Microsoft Visio etc.?  Good knowledge and experienced about Google Cloud.?  Excellent communication, interpersonal, analytical skills and strong ability to perform as part of a team. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Analyst/Database Developer Google - Sterling, VA - August 2016 to Present Project Description:? Developing low code Google cloud base solutions. Using MySql database for storing data, automation tools Ansible/Jenkins and container technologies such as Docker.? ? Duties:?  Configured and managed MySQL databases in development, test and production environments.?  Developed advance PL/SQL packages, procedures, triggers, functions, indexes and collections to implement business logic using SQL Navigator.?  Developed tables, views, constraints, sequences, index (B Tree, Bitmap and Function Based)?  Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning and Application tuning using various tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL*TRACE, TKPROF and AUTOTRACE?  Managed database security - users, roles, privileges and synonyms.?  Identified and escalated immediately any risks to the database service.?  Captured and documented the requirements needed to implement a solution to meet the client business needs.?  Mapped and documented interfaces between legacy and newer systems.?  Developing low code Google cloud base solutions.?  Produced project feasibility and cost analysis reports.?  Controlled solution by establishing specifications. Database Developer/Team Lead LeadSoft Limited - November 2013 to April 2016 Project Description:? InsurSoft is an integrated & web-enabled online life insurance solution. The product incorporate all functionalities necessary for business processes comprised of financial management, investment insurance and life insurance product management. This software was implemented in three major insurance companies.? ? Duties:?  Involved in full development cycle of planning, analysis, design, development and implementation.?  Developed PL/SQL packages, store Procedures, functions, triggers, SQL statements in Oracle 11g/12c?  Created and modified several UNIX shell scripts according to the changing needs of the project and client requirements.?  Wrote UNIX shell scripts to process the files on daily basis like renaming the file, extracting date from the file, unzipping the file and remove the junk characters from the file before loading them into the base tables.?  Generated server side PL/SQL scripts for data manipulation and validation and materialized views for remote instances.?  Developed PL/SQL triggers and master tables for automatic creation of primary keys.?  Created scripts to create new tables, views, queries for new enhancement in the application using TOAD.?  Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning and Application tuning using various tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL*TRACE, TKPROF and AUTOTRACE.?  Created PL/SQL scripts to extract the data from the operational database into simple flat text files using UTL_FILE package.?  Partitioned the fact tables and materialized views to enhance the performance.?  Extensively used bulk collection in PL/SQL objects for improving the performing.?  Created records, tables, collections (nested tables and arrays) for improving Query performance by reducing context switching.?  Involved in full development cycle of Planning, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.?  Designed and developed Oracle forms & reports.?  Performed modifications on existing form as per change request and maintained it.?  Extensively used the advanced features of PL/SQL like records, tables; object types and dynamic SQL.?  Used SQL Server SSIS tool to build high performance data integration solutions including extraction, transformation and load packages for data warehouse.?  Extracted data from the XML, flat file, excel file and loaded it into the database.?  Handled errors using Exception Handling extensively for the ease of debugging and displaying the error messages in the application.? ? Environment: Oracle Database 11g, Oracle Developer Suite 11g, Weblogic Server 11, Toad, SQL Developer, SQL * Plus, Windows 7, Red Hat Linux 6.4 Database Developer Opsonin Pharmaceutical Ltd - February 2012 to October 2013 Project Description:? Supply Chain Management system is a complete integrated & web-enabled solution. The product incorporates all functionalities necessary for business processes as well as material management, procurement management and product management capabilities.? Duties:?  Provided 24x7 On Call rotation supporting production environments.?  Developed advance PL/SQL packages, procedures, triggers, functions, indexes and collections to implement business logic using SQL Navigator.?  Generated server side PL/SQL scripts for data manipulation and validation and materialized views for remote instances.?  Involved in table redesigning with implementation of Partitions Table and Partition Indexes to make Database Faster and easier to maintain.?  Designed and developed Oracle forms & reports generating reports.?  Performed modifications on existing form as per change request and maintained it.?  Generated server side PL/SQL scripts for data manipulation and validation and materialized views.?  Created table, views, packages, procedures, functions and created indexes on tables to improve the performance.?  Clear documentation was prepared on all the processes like program specification, bugs fixing logs & change requests for future reference.?  Handled errors using Exception Handling.? ? Environment: Oracle Database 10g, Oracle Developer Suite 6i & 10g, Toad 9.0, SQL * Plus, Windows XP, Red Hat Linux 5.0 Database Developer National Life Insurance Ltd - October 2010 to January 2012 Project Description:? The project is a complete integrated & web-enabled online life insurance solution. The product incorporate all functionalities necessary for business processes as well as financial management, investment insurance and other life insurance product management capabilities.? ? Duties:?  Analyzed database requirements of the users, applications and operations and provides feedback.?  Developed and modified a number of Forms and for various modules.?  Wrote Shell Scripts for Data loading and DDL Scripts.?  Wrote conversion scripts using SQL, PL/SQL, stored procedures, functions and packages to migrate data from SQL server database to Oracle database?  Provided recommendations including definition of physical structure, functional capabilities, security structure, and the backup and recovery processes.?  Developed and optimized stored procedures.?  Optimized existing PL/SQL packages.?  Developed complex SQL queries, advanced Oracle PL/SQL code and triggers.?  Provided technical expertise and lead junior developers.?  Planned and executed tests demonstrating that the design work.?  Efficiently diagnose and resolve errors in code.?  Designed and developed Oracle forms & Reports.?  Migrated data from old system [FoxPro] to Oracle 9i Database.?  Created scripts to create new tables, views, queries for new enhancement in the application using TOAD? ? Environment: Oracle Database 9i, Oracle Developer Suite 6i & 10g, Toad, SQL * Plus, Windows XP, Red Hat Linux 5.0 Programmer/Database Developer RTV - August 2008 to October 2010 Project Description:? Video content management system used to easily centralize, record and manage their media assets. News management system used to speed up activity of adding news, breaking news, program headline and other type of content and help to display it for users.? ? Duties:?  Resolved customer issues submitted, via Help Desk Service?  Developed T-SQL, procedures, functions, Triggers.?  Provided database coding to support business applications using T-SQL.?  Built and maintained T-SQL scripts, indexes, and complex?  Wrote complex SQL and T-SQL queries for validating the data against different kinds of reports.?  Used SQL and T-SQL to query databases performing various validations and mapping activities?  Developed news and programs management using c#.net.?  Installed, configured, and managed SQL Server in development, test, and production environment?  Managed backup/restore, point-in-time recovery including backup verification, security?  Created and managed indexes, constraints, keys (PK, FK) Education Bachelor's in Computer Science and Engineering August 2004 to September 2009 Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate May 2016 to Present Oracle Database 11g: SQL Fundamentals I : 1Z0-051, Oracle Database 11g: Administration I 1Z0-052
Lead Database Administrator / Database Manager;Senior Database Engineer;Database Administrator:::Lead Database Administrator / Database Manager Lead Database Administrator / Database Manager - Portfolio Warehouse Fremont, CA - An accomplished Database Specialist with over 15 years of experience specializing in Database Administration, Designing and architecting in fast paced 24x7 environments. Expert level technical skills in Database Management specializing in areas like Oracle, Actian Vector (Columnar DB), Real Application Clusters, MySQL Cluster, MySQL, PostreSQL, and Cassandra. Core experience with Backup and Recovery, Disaster Recovery, Database Security, Data Migration, Capacity Planning, Data Consolidation, High Availability, Database Upgrade/Patches, Data Center Migrations, Amazon RDS, Amazon EC2, Amazon Redshift, Performance Tuning, Database Design and Implementation. Excellent Team player, highly motivated and dedicated to achieve team and company objectives. Have the ability to do multi-tasking and deliver projects in time without supervision.? ? Certifications: Oracle Certified Professional 12c, 11g and 9i, Microsoft Certified DBA (MCDBA), Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA), Solaris Certified, Cisco Certified Security Professional (CCSP).? ? TECHINCAL SKILL SET?  Experience in setting up and administering Oracle, Actian Vector (Columnar DB), Real Application Clusters, MySQL Cluster, MySQL, PostreSQL, and Cassandra databases.?  Experience with Backup and Recovery i.e. RMAN, expdp, impdp in Oracle. Copydb, movedb in Vector. Mysqldump, vxfs snapshot, ndb_mgm backup, ndb_restore in MySQL. pg_dump, pg_dumpall, pg_basebackup in PostgreSQL, nodetool snapshot keyspace in Cassandra, etc.?  Experience in Oracle Data guard for High availability (HA), PostgreSQL and MySQL replication and standby.?  Experience in Production support of more than 200 DBs (Oracle, MySQL, Vector, PostgreSQL) running on Linux and Solaris.?  Experience in supporting large OLTP database i.e. 11TB.?  Experience with setup and administration Oracle Database Security using Profiles, database privileges and roles, encryption (TDE).?  Experience with Tuning Linux/Unix Server, Databases, JVM, Caching.?  Experience managing OpenStack.?  Experience managing Cassandra. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Database Administrator / Database Manager Thomson Reuters - San Francisco, CA - May 2001 to Present Thomson Reuters is a multinational mass media and information firm with operational headquarters at 3 Times Square in Manhattan, New York City. The company operates in more than 100 countries, and has more than 60,000 employees around the world. ? I work for Technology & Ops ? Financial & Risk Technology Content and Analytics Platform of Thomson Reuters and responsible for Portfolio Warehouse, Portfolio Analytics and Risk and Fundamentals Content Databases. ? ? Responsibilities include:?  Working cohesively with geographically distributed team of architects, managers and individual contributors.?  Quality assurance management of technical designs and deliverables and ensuring linkage to program objectives and the technology roadmap.?  Resolution of technical issues between vendors, business partners and technology teams.?  POC and Technology evaluation for Database Technologies, Big Data Technologies?  Optimizing Oracle, Action Vector, MySQL, PostgreSQL and NoSQL databases.? Architecting Databases for Oracle, Actian Vector, HBase.?  Handling Performance tuning Escalations for RDBMS and NoSQL Databases.? ? DETAILED EXPERIENCE?  24x7 production support for several mission critical systems which utilize multiple Oracle 10g and 11g , 12c, Vector 3 and 4.2., PostgreSQL and MySQL databases. . ?  Installation, configuration, administration and maintenance of Oracle 10g /11g/12c RAC/ Vectorwise 2.5/Vectorwise 3/Vector 4.2/MySQL/PostgreSQL/Cassandra databases.?  Performed upgrades from Oracle 8i to 10g, 10gR2 to 11gR2, 11gR2 to 12c, Vector 2.5 to 3, 4.2. 5.0?  Migrated databases from Sun Solaris SPARC to Sun Solaris x86.?  Manage AWS databases on RDS, EC2, and Redshift.?  Setup, configured and maintained oracle data guard/active data guard (primary and standby databases) for disaster recovery, high availability and data protection.?  Setup, configure and maintain PostgreSQL and MySQL standby/read replicas using replication.?  Data Migration from one infrastructure to another.?  Used shell scripting for automation of job scripts, for Startup and Shutdown, cloning, backups, Health Check of Databases, Analyzing tables and Rebuilding Indexes, monitoring, managing replication, etc.?  Design Databases for performance, disaster Recovery, site failover, etc.?  Migration from file based ISAM databases to RDBMS using different tools.?  Assist developers in Data Modeling.?  Use import/export, export data pump (expdp/impdb), SQL Loader, vwload, mysqldmp, pg_dump.?  Installed and Implemented Backup and Recovery Procedures, Implemented Hot, Cold, Logical backup, Data Guard, and RMAN, vxfs snapshot, pg_basebackup,.?  Downsizing and defragmenting the Very Large LOB tables by export/ import.?  Optimize/Vaccum/reindex for PostgreSQL/MySQL,?  Setup Cassandra, Performance Turning (Caching, Compaction, Compression), Backup and Restore (using nodetool snapshot, incremental backup, commitlog), Monitor log, Garbage collection, System level monitoring, repairing nodes, scaling in and out etc.?  Performance monitoring and tuning using SQL Trace, TKPROF, Explain Plan, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM?  Configured/used on Automatic storage management (ASM) ?  Configured Streams to capture propagate; apply changes in multiple databases.?  Installation, administration and maintenance of Oracle Streams / Golden Gate (Replicated Portfolios/Lists to Strategic Alerts (SAS) to broadcast portfolio changes to other Thomson Reuters units.?  Load Balancing, Databases/Schemas/Table defragmentation/partitioning for faster performance using export/import/shrink & Move procedures. ?  Storage Management ?  Used OEM/Grid Control for monitoring?  Designing the security and database access strategies.?  Capacity planning, partitioning and bench marking.?  Developed Shell scripting for database operations and monitoring.?  Work with Storage Administrators for EMC/VMAX allocations; work with iostat and IOPS to get an optimal LUN configuration.?  Work with Network Administrators to solve critical network issues.?  Work with Unix Admins for Server/Veritas Cluster/ZFS/CFS/VxFS/Server issues. Senior Database Engineer NBCI - San Francisco, CA - January 2000 to March 2001 NBCi was created through the combination of Snap, XOOM.com, and NBC.com. It provided a comprehensive online experience to users worldwide via Internet search and directory, community, shopping, e-commerce, multimedia and entertainment services across all bandwidths. I was one of the three DBAs who managed the Oracle, MySQL and PostgreSQL databases. Database Administrator FRITZ COMPANIES, INC - San Francisco, CA - November 1998 to December 1999 Fritz Companies, Inc. is a specialist in global integrated logistics, delivering comprehensive supply chain solutions to its customers worldwide. Fritz provides flexible door-to-door transportation and material management through sophisticated information systems, placing its emphasis on simplifying processes and reducing overall transportation costs. The Fritz network is composed of highly trained professionals in more than 450 locations in some 115 countries. Education Bachelor's Degree Delhi University - Delhi, Delhi Master's Degree Meerut University - Meerut, Uttar Pradesh Post Graduate Diploma in Computers in Computers NIIT - Delhi, Delhi Skills Oracle database, RAC... (10+ years), MySQL (3 years), PostgresSQL (3 years), AWS - RDS, EC2, AIM, Redshift (3 years), Linux, Unix (10+ years), Windows Server 2003, 2008 (4 years), Cassandra (3 years), Vector/Vectorwise Columnar Database (4 years), Hadoop, Kafka, Hbase, Elasticsearch, (2 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/chris-rodrigues-671a761 Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional (OCP) ? 12c ,10g and 9i January 2000 to Present Oracle Ceritifcation
Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator Laurel, MD - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Veterans Affair - August 2015 to May 2017  Lead and successfully complete a data center migration to AWS on linux.?  Plan and execute disaster recovery for company production systems.?  Installed and actively manage OEM 13c for monitoring.?  Research and solve Oracle and product errors (external client and internal).?  Plane and implement backup and recovery strategy and write scripts to do nightly RMAN? backup.?  Installed, patched, and managed Oracle Database versions 11g on Red Hat Linux?  Create documentation to support the business and satisfy regulatory requirements.?  Member of a DBA team that manages several hundred global Oracle and SQL Server? databases with on-call rotation. OEM Administrator.?  Experience working on POC of 12c new features like Redaction policy, adaptive query? ? Created using Resumonk - Online Resume Builder? optimization, multiple indexes on single column, Restore table through RMAN etc?  Able to resolve the performance issue in database 12c using full database caching and In-Memory Aggregation features.?  Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable? database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot? cloning feature.?  Have implemented two type of standby databases supported by Data Guard, logical? standby and physical standby databases in 11gR2?  Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases? using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup.?  Implemented Active Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in? 10g, 11gRAC & 12C environment for the Production databases.?  Configured and managed Data Guard extensively for Production databases of sizes? ranging from 2GB to 20TB.?  Experiencing in Installing OEM 12c and 13c Cloud Control and upgrading the 11g? management agents to 12c agents.?  Implemented GoldenGate in moving large volumes of transactional data, with minimal? impact to online systems. Database Administrator Boltos INC - February 2012 to April 2015 Installing and upgrading Oracle binaries & application tools, applying patches, bug fixes,? security updates, perform monthly or quarterly database/system maintenance,? configuration and administration of Oracle databases. Upgrades from 11g to 12c?  Involved in capacity planning of databases and their host machines (database storage,? memory, CPU, network usage, and I/O contention) in a complex Architecture layout to include both standalone and clustered environments?  Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager? (OEM) 12c Cloud Control?  Used database tools such as STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL TRACE, TKPROOF, AWR? and ADDM to evaluate database performance, gather statistics, resolve performance? related issues, and generate report.? ? Created using Resumonk - Online Resume Builder?  Developed and managed PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Packages? used by the database instance.?  Evaluated and implemented alert monitors, implementing database security using? standard/fine auditing.?  Created Knowledge based containing database structure, changes common issues and resolutions?  Created and implemented various table partitions for large tables?  Created and tuned various materialized views?  Scheduled jobs using various Oracle tools such as Oracle OEM, DBMS JOBS, SCHEDULER?  Automated hot backup using a combination of incremental, differential and full RMAN? backups.?  Use Datapump to export data from production Database to test Database.?  Provided 24x7 database support Developed hot, cold and logical backup scripts to automate the backup procedures?  Provided on-call support in adherence to specific business and customer Service Level? Agreements?  Created Testing and Development databases following OFA compliance rules.?  Performed Complete Media Recovery of Database depends on the nature of failure.?  Configured and implemented the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) for cold and hot backup to the databases?  Provided database administration on production, testing and development database? servers.?  Performed series of database refreshes from production to test.?  Loaded data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables?  Regular Monitoring Alert log Files and trace files on Day to Day Basis.?  Identifying and removing Fragmentation, row migration/chaining of database objects.?  Analyzing the Tables and Indexes on performance base regularly?  Configured, Managed and Troubleshoot Data Guard using Data Guard broker.?  Troubleshoot and resolved log gap in Data Guard Configuration.?  Configured Oracle Advance Security for data encryption?  Managed several 2 nodes RAC database on Linux.?  Managed 11gR2 Grid Infrastructure i.e. ASM, CLUSTERWARE Education Bachelor of Science in Resumonk Washington Adventist University Skills Database (6 years), OEM (6 years), Oracle (6 years), RMAN (6 years), SQL (6 years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Additional Information SKILLS Certifications? Oracle Database 11g: SQL Fundamentals? Oracle Database 11g Administrator Certified Associate? Skills:? Database (6 years), Oracle (6 years), RMAN (6 years), SQL (6 years), Migration (6 years),? Data Guard (6 years), Data pump (6 years), AWS (2 years), Performance tuning (6 years),? Golden Gate (1 years)? Application, Tools, Utilities:? SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Data Guard, SQL*Loader, Data Migration? (Export and Import), Procedures, RMAN Backup and Recovery, Performance Tuning,? Statspack/AWR, ADDM, NETCA, NETMGR, DBCA, DBUA
Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator - Bridgeport Healthcare Center Milford, CT - To obtain a professional position in the computer science industry utilizing my relevant experience, technical? expertise, and problem solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Bridgeport Healthcare Center - March 2017 to Present I am currently doing contract work for the dietary department of this healthcare center. Work involves transferring? all patient data from an old system onto a new database. Data consists of a wide range of attributes, such as name, room number, diet, allergies, meal choices, and much more. Work includes assuring all data is properly? inputted into the database, so that dietary needs of patients may be taken care of. Work also involves teaching the dietary manager and supervisors to use the new system. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Programming I and II Southern Connecticut State University New Haven December 2016 Skills Android (Less than 1 year), AngularJS (Less than 1 year), Apache (Less than 1 year), ARM (Less than 1 year), Assembly (Less than 1 year) Links http://github.com/shaowdy Additional Information SKILLS? Coding Technologies Software Environments?  Java  Git  Windows and Mac OS?  JavaScript  Amazon Web Services  Microsoft Office?  HTML/CSS  WAMP Stack  Eclipse Java?  PHP and SQL Windows, Apache,  Android Studio?  MatLab MySQL, PHP  MatLab?  R  MEAN Stack  NetLogo?  Perl MongoDB, Express,  Adobe Audition?  ARM Assembly AngularJS, NodeJS  Google Docs
Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator - Jelani Consulting LLC Gaithersburg, MD - Certified Oracle Database Administer with 6 years experience in Oracle Database Administration Installation, Configuration, Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Memory Management, Data Modeling, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, RAC, Data Guard, Grid Control, Oracle Streams. I am a proactive worker, who is very passionate about the Information Technology field and always willing to learn new things. I pose great communication skills and can work in versatile work environments (single or team) based roles with minimal supervision. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Jelani Consulting LLC - February 2015 to Present  Supports production and non-production oracle databases 24/7?  Providing 24/7 support of the production environment, managing 102 production database?  Daily, monthly loads, using sqlloader, dblink.?  Tuning of SQL scripts to enhance performance-AWR, ASH, ADDM, Explain plan, Auto-trace, tkprof?  Creating indexes and Explain plan to enhance performance?  Audits of users and application accounts?  Import/export of database, schema, objects, DDL?  Data replication using Oracle Golden-gate; configuration and maintenance Oracle Database Administrator Federal Depository Insurance Corporation - May 2013 to February 2015  Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.?  Refreshed schema using Export/Import. Created the database, table space, tables, indexes, set privileges and user logins.?  Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.?  Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.?  Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.?  Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.?  Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases. Oracle Database Administrator U.S Department of State - March 2008 to July 2013  Performing Day-to-Day DBA tasks: performance tuning, system security, database?  Installation configuration, patching, technical database support in 24X7 environment to ensure?  System performance and stability.?  Daily incremental backup and weekly full backup of databases using RMAN.?  Loading data into database tables using SQL Loader.?  Frequently monitor emails in regards to any database issues.?  Responsible for quarterly patches, /maintaining/monitoring/upgrading the production and test?  Databases.?  Setup/configured oracle RMAN for database backup and recovery. Application of different recovery?  Procedures for complete and incomplete recoveries depending on the type of failure by using?  Export/Import scripts.?  Restore and Recover of database from offline, online and RMAN backup.?  Table space monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement.?  Granting roles and privileges to end users.?  Managing, troubleshooting and resolving oracle database and application issues. Skills Database (9 years), Oracle (9 years), performance tuning (5 years), RDBMS (1 year), security (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:? ?  Red Hat Linux RHEL 6.x and Windows XP?  RDBMS - Oracle 10g/11g and 12c?  Backup and recovery?  Database security?  Real Application Cluster (RAC)?  Enterprise Manager?  Performance Tuning & Migration?  Installation & Configuration?  Network & Connectivity? ? PERSONAL SKILLS? ?  Ability to work under pressure?  Conflict resolution.?  Detailed oriented?  Excellent leadership abilities / Team Oriented?  Strong oral and written communication skills?  Ability to learn new technology (Tech Refresh), methodology, and work routines quickly.
Database and Middleware Engineer;Database Administrator III;Senior Database Administrator;Senior Database Administrator;Senior Database Administrator:::Database and Middleware Engineer Database and Middleware Engineer - The Coca Cola Company Douglasville, GA - Work Experience Database and Middleware Engineer The Coca Cola Company - 2014 to Present  Developed high availability and disaster recovery designs for SQL Server at Amazon Web Service.?  Architected database maintenance for Amazon Web Services including consistency, recovery, availability, and performance.?  Created process for automated install of SQL Server for private cloud.?  Resolved Amazon Web Service licensing issue by reviewing multiple third party software providers and providing a solution.?  Database infrastructure and design lead for Century Link project migration.?  Resolved multiple issues with VirtuStream cloud migration.?  Implemented third party software for database monitoring at Amazon Web Service resolving connectivity and firewall issues.?  Discovered, vetted and introduced new software for single pane monitoring to fill a void in the current infrastructure.?  Subject matter expert and evangelist for Microsoft SQL Server.?  Saved the company over $500,000 with project solutions.?  Introduced new SQL Server licensing model to save $300,000.?  Multiple new database and other technologies presented to management.?  Investigated, reviewed and presented NoSQL solutions for cloud with recommendations for management.?  Engineered multiple middleware solutions for Axway product. Database Administrator III Coca-Cola Enterprises/Coca-Cola Refreshments - 2005 to 2013 - SQL Server?  Maintained over 3300 databases on 340 plus servers.?  Team lead.?  Solved multiple performance problems including hardware and software resolutions.?  Designed multiple physical and logical layouts of databases.?  Completed capacity planning of hundreds of projects.?  Provided results for audits and SOX requirements.?  Designed and implemented disaster recovery process and procedures including multiple outliers. Senior Database Administrator Delta Air Lines - 1998 to 2005 - Sybase/SQL Server?  SQL Server team lead.?  Maintained over 100 databases on forty servers using SQL Server 2000 and 6.5.?  Maintained over 200 databases in Sybase. Senior Database Administrator Oacis Healthcare - 1996 to 1998 - Sybase?  Remote support for over fifty hospitals around the world.?  UNIX Administrator.?  Certified Sybase professional. Senior Database Administrator Delta Air Lines - 1988 to 1996 - Sybase?  Sybase Database Administrator.?  DB2 Database Administrator.?  Programmer: Natural programming language. Education B.S. in Business Administration and Computer Science University of West Alabama - Livingston, AL 1984 to 1988
Database Marketing Coordinator;Marketing Database Coordinator;Database Marketing Specialist:::Database Marketing Coordinator Milwaukee, WI - Work Experience Database Marketing Coordinator Foley & Lardner LLP - Milwaukee, WI - May 2010 to Present Responsibilities? - administer firm's SQL-based Customer Relationship (CRM) database? - create and design SQL reports of CRM data? - administer SQL jobs pulling data into CRM from other systems (Accounting, HR, external files, etc.)? - manage technical projects (examples: develop a Web-based form powered by a SQL database to compile data and report on it, test and deploy software for marketing department use)? - develop and maintain Web-based event registration pages? - develop and deploy e-mail and e-marketing campaigns? - troubleshoot and provide solutions for issues with various internal technical productions (why is this process failing? why is this character displaying strangely in this email? what changed in our environment that caused this job to encounter issues? where is the data that populates this (very old) report coming from?)? ? Accomplishments? Since joining the firm I've streamlined several internal processes to provide single data sources and eliminate duplication of efforts. I've become the go-to technical person within my department when someone runs into an issue or into a problem they can't figure out. I've helped to streamline our e-marketing campaigns by developing templates that use variables (versus the old way of creating multiple new files for each event). I've also worked with my team to provide more concise training and quick reference guides to give staff access to what they need to do their job *when* they need it.? ? Skills Used? - Extensive leadership and organizational skills - I've always worked in an office other than the one my boss works in. It's not uncommon for us to go days without checking in with each other. He trusts me to do my job and prioritize my work schedule so as to meet deadlines and client expectations.? - I'm a very organized project manager - I've been brought into projects that were a complete MESS because I'm known for my ability to assess the situation, pull together the right resources and get a project back on track.? - I've also shown over the years my ability to learn as I go - many times I've been brought into projects where, initially, I may not have had all of the technical understanding necessary to complete the job, but have either taught myself or found resources to learn the skills needed to understand and then execute the job as needed. Marketing Database Coordinator Reinhart Boerner Van Deuren s.c. - Milwaukee, WI - April 2009 to April 2010 Responsibilities? - Administer firm's SQL-based Customer Relationship (CRM) database? - Create training curriculum & documentation for attorneys and staff (2 separate programs) on the usage of the firm's CRM system? - Trained the trainers on CRM software for both attorney and staff programs? - Create software deployment plan for distributing CRM software to all attorneys and staff? - Administer the firm's e-marketing software platform, including sending all e-marketing communications, creating and maintaining all event registration pages, and communicating stats and trends on e-marketing data to management staff? - Work with designers and writers to educate them on SPAM buzzwords and avoiding them in their design and copy to improve email delivery rates? - Work with designers to test e-marketing communications in different browsers, and running HTML files through various litmus tests for email deliverability? ? Accomplishments? - Completed the roll-out of CRM software to all attorneys and staff? - Streamlined e-marketing campaign processes to include multiple browser and litmus tests for maximum deliverability? - Educated marketing staff on the details of email deliverability and online maximization (what buzz-words to stay away from in email copy, what SEO keywords we might want to include (or not include) in our HTML files, etc.)? - Developed training curriculum on CRM system and created documentation (quick reference guides, "how-to" step-by-step instructions)? ? Skills Used? - I showcased my high level of understanding of e-marketing campaigns, and helped to set standards for marketing email communications? - Used my well-developed communication skills to develop a training curriculum, product documentation and end user reference guides? - The last four months of my employment here was as an off-site employee. Not reporting to a physical office every day can mean disaster when you're working very closely with members of various departments on a project, but if you're well organized and a good communicator, being physically removed from your co-workers won't matter. Database Marketing Specialist Foley & Lardner LLP - Milwaukee, WI - September 2002 to April 2009 Responsibilities? - Create training curriculum & documentation for attorneys and staff (2 separate programs) on the usage of the firm's CRM system? - Trained the trainers on CRM software for both attorney and staff programs? - Administer the firm's e-marketing software platform, including sending all e-marketing communications, creating and maintaining all event registration pages, and communicating stats and trends on e-marketing data to management staff? - Act as content manager for the firm's external and internal Web sites (through 2005), editing attorney photos and bios? ? Accomplishments? - Developed a training program for CRM software and traveled to several offices to train trainers and attorney pilot groups? - Created training documents for CRM software, both product documentation and end user reference guides? - Implemented an external Web site where attorneys and management staff can order logo-ed apparel and other items, as well as shifted distribution of printed materials to an off-site vendor (meaning that I didn't have to keep inventory in the office and mail out orders as needed; instead one of our print vendors did that as part of a contract we worked out with them)? - Developed a Web-based form for the submission of creative projects, including a job numbering and organizational system still in place today? ? Skills Used? - High level of organizational skills? - An understanding of business needs and how to translate them into a technical product (i.e. We needed a better tool with which our marketing staff could submit a job request to the creative team. I worked with technology staff to create an online form, a back-end database, and a job numbering system.)? - The ability to stretch myself technically - if there was something I needed to learn in order to complete a project, I learned it and understood it well. Education Certificate in Web Development UW-Milwaukee - Milwaukee, WI 2008 to 2009 BS in Journalism/Mass Communications - Public Relations UW-Milwaukee - Milwaukee, WI 1996 to 2002
Database Administrator IV;Manager of Database Services;Lead Database Administrator:::Database Administrator IV Seguin, TX - Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator IV Rackspace - San Antonio, TX - October 2007 to Present  Administered mission-critical corporate databases on PostgreSQL?  Architected a major upgrade jump from PostgreSQL 8.2 to 9.3 with minimal business impact?  Improved stability, security, and performance of database systems?  Developed various automations of routine DBA work?  Highly experienced in problem determination and resolution?  Implemented master-slave replication for various systems using either Slony replication or streaming replication?  Developed a Zabbix plugin for monitoring PostgreSQL DB metrics, alerting, and trending?  Installed and supported Zabbix monitoring system for all our PostgreSQL DBs and servers?  Red Hat 7 Certified System Administrator (certification number 160-160-065)?  Proficient in?  PostgreSQL 9.x?  CentOS 6.x & 7.x?  SQL coding?  PostgreSQL PL/SQL stored procedures?  Bash scripting?  Experienced in?  Ansible configuration management?  Git code control?  Jira issue tracking?  Confluence wiki?  Zabbix monitoring?  DB and application performance tuning Manager of Database Services HEB - San Antonio, TX - April 2006 to October 2007  Led a team of 9 Database Administrators?  Directly responsible for resource management and key project deliverables for the DBA team?  Responsible for forecast and control of expense and capital budgets?  Responsible for ensuring licensing compliance for Oracle, MS SQL, Informix, and Red Brick DBMS platforms?  Provided employee coaching and feedback semi-annually?  Continued to provide 24x7 support for DB2 and IMS on z/OS Lead Database Administrator HEB - San Antonio, TX - February 1999 to April 2006  DB2 & IMS DB database administration on the IBM z/OS platform?  DB2 for z/OS v8.1?  IMS v8.1?  CICS?  JCL?  TSO/ISPF?  CA-7 and Zeke job schedulers?  CA Unicenter Tools for DB2?  Omegamon for IMS, DB2, & IMS?  Changeman change control system?  Enterprise COBOL?  VSAM, PDS, PDS/E, and flat files?  ISPF Editor?  ISPF Dialog application development using panels, skeletons, clists, and tables?  Database schema design?  Database and application performance tuning?  Oracle on Solaris?  Oracle 8i and 9i?  Sun Solaris 8?  SQL coding?  Oracle Enterprise Manager?  Oracle Internet Directory?  Oracle RMan Repository?  Korn shell scripting?  Awk scripting Education BS in Computer Science Texas State University - San Marcos, TX September 1989 to December 1992 Skills Linux (10+ years), DB2 z/OS (10+ years), Bash Scripting (10+ years), Git (2 years), Oracle (6 years), PostgreSQL (9 years), Databases (10+ years), COBOL (10+ years), Zabbix (5 years), SQL (10+ years), Mainframe (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Red Hat Certified System Administrator August 2016 to January 2020 Certification ID: 160-160-065 Red Hat Certified Engineer January 2017 to January 2020 Certification ID: 160-160-065
Database Administrator;Database / Domain Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator Austin, TX - Work Experience Database Administrator Texas Department of State Health Services - June 2007 to January 2013 MS SQL Server database administration - specifically PICS (Pharmacy Inventory Control System) and ARIES (AIDS REGIONAL INFORMATION and EVALUATION SYSTEM).? ? The PICS system allows the tracking of all medical and pharmaceutical products distributed throughout the state of Texas in conjunction with state sponsored health programs - a few examples are Immunization, Tuberculosis Elimination and HIV. The system also supports the generation of several statistical reports that reflect the usage of specific drugs with respect to sponsored program and public health region.? ? The ARIES system allows tracking of virtually all aspects of the treatment of patients? diagnosed with HIV from the time of diagnosis until end of life. The data stored in the ARIES database is perhaps the most sensitive data stored by the agency and is protected by the most thorough security measures available.? ? Duties included virtually all aspects of database administration including:? 1) Daily monitoring of scheduled tasks, database backups, data replication, and drive space on the servers.? 2) Administration of user accounts and permissions.? 3) Creation and modification of database maintenance plans.? 4) Creation and modification of DTS and SSIS packages.? 5) Updating test system database with current data from production system - quite easy for PICS system but very complicated for ARIES.? 6) Installing and testing new versions of the databases and applications in test environments and then moving into production.? 7) Development of ad hoc queries to produce various reports on request of Pharmacy Warehouse personnel and sometimes for ARIES system - these reports often used once and only once.? ? Familiarity with the following software was essential for support of these systems:? ? MS SQL Server 2000 - MS SQL Server 2008 - Windows server 2000 - Windows server 2008 - Microsoft Excel - CITRIX - GoToMeeting - Microsoft IIS Administrator - Remote Desktop Connection - Microsoft Certificate Authority Server - VB and ASP .NET? ? Supervisor - Blas Galaviz (512-776-6003) Database / Domain Administrator Texas Department of Public Safety - Austin, TX - August 1998 to June 2007 Supervisor: Joe Brattain (512-424-5119)? Duties:? (primary) Microsoft SQL Server Database Administration (6.5 through 2000).? (secondary) Microsoft Windows Network administration (NT 3.51 through Server 2003).? (additional) Documentation (web-based) of all troubleshooting and administration skills and procedures required to support four major data-entry systems.? Over eight years experience with DTS - MS SQL Server replication - backup/restore - security administration - database design - job scheduling - database maintenance plans - virtually any tasks that involve maintaining database systems after they have been put into production.? 3 years VBA (MS Access) programming? 2+ years VB.NET database programming Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Wichita State University - Wichita, KS May 1997
Database Advisor;Database Developer & Administrator;Database Developer/DBA:::Database Advisor Database Advisor - WellPoint, Inc - Organized and detail-oriented database developer/DBA with an exceptional track record of accurately handling IT projects in deadline-oriented environments and more than 12 years of experience. Seeking a challenging position as senior business developer. Work Experience Database Advisor WellPoint, Inc - New York, NY - April 2010 to Present New York, NY 04/10 - Present? Anthem is the largest healthcare company in the US. Anthem creates greater healthcare for our members, greater value for our customers, and greater health for our communities.? Responsibilities:? ? Involved in complete lifecycle implementation of the project from gathering user requirements, preparation of technical specifications documents, designing and developing databases, integration testing, unit testing, to go live production support.? ? Created and managed databases and objects such as tables, view, indexes, stored procedures, triggers and functions.? ? Created ETL packages to validate, extract, transform and load data into data warehouse databases using SSIS packages.? ? Cleansed and transferred data from various OLTP data sources, such as Oracle, MS Excel, Flat files, and CSV files into SQL Server by using SSIS packages.? ? Extensively used joins and sub-queries to simplify complex queries involving multiple tables.? ? Designed cubes with star schema using SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS).? ? Solely responsible for development and management of SSAS cube.? ? Performed performance tuning to optimize SQL queries using SQL profiler and query analyzer.? ? Extensively worked on creating SQL Server agent jobs, alerts, SQL Mail Agent, and automating SSIS Packages.? ? Worked with the project management tool and the source/version control tool: Tortoise SVN, JIRA, and Agile.? ? Designed parameterized reports for generating ad-hoc reports as per client requirements.? ? Migrated data from heterogeneous data sources and legacy systems to centralized SQL Server database enterprise repository. Database Developer & Administrator The Catastrophe Risk Exchange, Inc - Princeton, NJ - July 2005 to March 2010 CATEX) is a specialized developer and operator of web based reinsurance and insurance transaction and accounting systems. CATEX develops and maintains reinsurance trading platforms.? Responsibilities:? ? Analyzed client requirements to design and implement robust, maintainable business solutions.? ? Involved in debugging and performance tuning using SQL profiler & Database Engine Tuning Advisor utility.? ? Created database objects such as triggers, indexes, views, functions, and stored procedures using? SQL Server Management Studio.? ? Designed, created, and processed cubes using SSAS.? ? Worked extensively on Multi-Dimensional Expressions (MDX) to query and manipulate the multidimensional data stored in OLAP cubes.? ? Migrated large databases to and from development, quality assurance, and the data warehouse environment. Database Developer/DBA BCC USA - Township of South Brunswick, NJ - February 2001 to June 2005 BCC USA is a software consulting firm that provides IT solutions to fortune 500 clients.? Responsibilities:? ? Installed and configured SQL server.? ? Monitored, automated, tuned and optimized databases for high availability, performance and security.? ? Extensively used tools like SQL Profiler, Database Engine, and Index Tuning Wizard.? ? Created or altered database objects like table, functions, procedures, triggers and data transformation packages.? ? Responsible for release management process on various platforms. Education Bachelor of Science in Math & Statistics in Math & Statistics University of Bombay - Mumbai, Maharashtra Skills Windows 7 (Less than 1 year), Windows Server 2008 (Less than 1 year) Additional Information ? Tools: SQL Server Management Studio [?] SSIS, SSAS, SSRS? SQL Profiler Microsoft Visual Studio [?] MS office, Erwin, TortoisesSVN, Tidal, JIRA, Visual Source Safe? ? Languages: TSQL, HTML, Java Script, VB 6.0, VB Script, Unix Shell? ? RDBMS: MS SQL Server [?] Oracle 8i, MS Access? ? ? Operating Systems: Windows 7/XP Windows Server [?]
Senior Oracle Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Oracle Database Associate:::Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle Database Administrator - Kewill Tampa, FL - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator Kewill - Tampa, FL - January 2005 to Present Responsible for architecting, deploying and managing multiple 24 x7 databases for business critical applications using RAC, Data Guard (physical and logical standby), RMAN and Transportable Tablespaces. Creating and managing database objects. Database monitoring utilizing dbconsole / grid control, SQL scripts, shell scripts, O/S scheduling utilities and oracle dbms_scheduler. Identifying problematic SQL code using Oracle data dictionary views, SQL tuning Advisors, 10046 and 10053 level tracing, tkprof, TOAD and SQL Developer. Performing database tuning using underlying data dictionary views, ADDM, AWR and Statspack. Cloning of schemas across databases using oracle data pump and import / export utilities. Performing backup and recovery using RMAN, Transportable Tablespaces and conventional hot / cold backups. Monitoring of O/S and underlying hardware statistics using various utilities such as NMON (Linux and AIX) and performance monitor (Windows) and generating trend reports and graphs for management to evaluate. Mentoring of junior DBAs and working with development team to identify coding issues. Working with Oracle support dealing with all aspects of SR management. Upgrading SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2012. Installation and deployment of SQL 2012 database servers for in-house applications. Listed below are some of the projects I worked on leading a team of 3 DBAS:? ?  Installed and configured multiple 12c databases on Oracle Linux 7.1?  Consolidated / migrated multiple 10g and 11g databases into 12c pluggable databases?  Schema cloning across Oracle AWS instances?  Installed, configured and supported (24 x 7) multiple 11g R2 RAC databases for mission critical applications on 64 bit Linux with ASM on NetApp Filer / SAN utilizing Oracle Direct NFS?  Installed, configured and supported (24 x 7) multiple 11g R2 RAC databases for mission critical applications on 64 bit Linux and Windows 2003/2008 X64 platforms including 2 node RAC on VMware 5x with Windows 2008 R2 as the guest operating system?  Configured and supported 11g R2 physical standby using RMAN duplicate?  Migrated 24 x 7 9i RAC production database running on Windows 32 bit and data files on OCFS to 11g R2 RAC database on Linux X64 with ASM using export / import and transportable tablespaces?  Deployed 2 node 10g R2 RAC database on 64 bit Linux for business critical 24 x 7 OLTP application using ASM (for data storage) and OCFS2 (for OCR and Voting Disk)?  Deployed and supported a 3 TB 24x7 production database (10g R2) with Logical Standby?  Implemented capacity planning and trend analysis process Database Administrator Tradepoint Systems, LLC - Nashua, NH - September 2002 to December 2004 Working as the sole Oracle Database Administrator, my primary responsibilities revolved around helping the management transition from RMS databases running on HP Open VMS to Oracle database on Linux, Windows and HP Open VMS platform. Some of the projects I worked on in this capacity are listed here:? ?  Installed and managed multiple mission critical OLTP Oracle databases (9i) with Oracle Data Guard (logical Standby) on Windows 2003 and IBM AIX 5.x platform and provided 24x7 support on all aspects of databases operations including day to day maintenance, backups, database tuning, SQL tuning and monitoring?  Mentored, and provided oracle training on oracle concepts and architecture to, colleagues from development department, helping them to utilize scalable and efficient coding techniques while porting the application from RMS to Oracle database?  Applied Oracle patches and upgraded the databases from Oracle 9i Rel2 to Oracle 10g Rel2?  Researched and implemented listener log analysis process to analyze application session handling logic?  Planned, deployed (and provided 24x7 support on) 2 node 9i Rel2 RAC production database for in-house application using OCFS on windows 2003 severs with physical standby?  Worked with Oracle Corporation on application embedded (ESL and ASFU) licensing contract model for Tradepoint applications?  Managed OPN (Oracle Partner Network) for Tradepoint Oracle Database Associate SYNTRA Technologies - New York, NY - September 1999 to August 2002 As a team member of DBA group, I was responsible for Installing Oracle Databases (7x, 8x) on Windows NT 4.0 and Sun Solaris platform and for providing DBA support to customers and internal users. In addition to that I was also responsible for deploying 2 tier and 3 tier application solutions using Oracle Forms, Oracle Reports, Oracle Application Server and Oracle database 8x and 9i), installing test instances of Oracle Applications (10x, 11x) and configuring backend interfaces to in house application, upgrading databases from 8i to 9i and Installation of SQL server 7.0. Here are some of the projects I worked on:? ?  Performed analysis of production database archived logs using logminer to diagnose the excessive redo log generation and reduce it by 70%?  Worked as a member of DBA team to build and support 24x7 production database for an in-house developed OLTP application it using Oracle Failsafe 3.0.4 and MS Windows Cluster Server 1.0?  Installed Oracle Applications Rel.10.7 on Oracle 7.3.4 and migrated the database to Oracle 8i?  Installed Oracle Applications 11i Release 5 on Windows NT 4.0 server?  Deployed 2 tier and 3 tier installation of in-house application Installed and configured Oracle Application Server? 4.0.7.x and 4.0.8.1 and Oracle Forms and Reports servers on Windows NT 4.0 and Sun Solaris 2.6?  Installed Oracle Applications ? Rel 11.0.3 on Windows NT?  Provided support to internal users and customers on Oracle database, Oracle Application Server?, Communication Server and Oracle Applications? interface issues Education MIS Rivier University - Nashua, NH Business and Accounting Graduate University of Karachi
Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator - Sienna-Systems Washington, DC -  7 years of experience in the IT industry. Four years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator.?  Responsible for Administration, Installation, Upgrading, Configuration, Maintenance, and Troubleshooting of the Oracle Databases.?  Complete range of Oracle DBA activities including day-to-day production database monitoring, Backup & Recovery.?  Administering the Database users, Managing all types of database objects and responsible for data/database security and protection.?  Use DBCA to create and DBUA to upgrade Oracle databases.?  Expertise in UNIX Systems Administration managing Solaris 10, IBM AIX, Help desk assistance, Hardware troubleshooting, Issue logs tracking and Patch management with excellent technical skills. Work Experience Database Administrator Sienna-Systems - Sienna, IT - January 2017 to Present  Manage and maintain currently supported Unix-based OS including Linux, HPUX, and/or Solaris on physical and virtual operating environments.? ?  Provide technical support for SQL*net, PL/SQL, External Procedures, Oracle security as defined by the DISA database Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG). Resolve problems that occur during program testing and in production modes.? ?  Install, configure, maintain, manage, and troubleshoot Unix-based OS including Linux, HPUX, and/or Solaris operating environments and associated components such as, but not limited to, the OS, File System, hardware issues, DNS, NFS, Syslog, OS configuration and troubleshooting?  Installing and Support Oracle SOA Suite? ?  Patching & Cloning E-Business Suite Instances? ?  Perform backups/restores IAW applicable regulations, policies, and guidance; and ensure backup failures are properly addressed.? ?  Ensure servers are properly configured and functioning as documented with specified network and storage components.? ?  Adequately validate functionality as per server and application documentation; report findings to appropriate parties and work with them to resolve issues.? ?  Exhibit effective and professional interpersonal skills to include written and oral communications? ?  Assist to analyze, monitor, troubleshoot, and diagnose issues to ensure system optimization, integrity, availability, and functionality.? ?  Assist to install, configure, administer, and support secure remote access utilities including, but not limited to, SSH, Secure Web Access, VSphere, and Remote X server access.? ?  Assist to configure networking and storage components to meet engineering specifications.? ?  Assist to document processes, procedures, and activities.? ?  Interact with Tier 1 service desks, technical staff, and customers to resolve technical problems or provide information as requested? ?  Use provided ticket management system to properly document and resolve problems.? ?  Adhere to all applicable government and security requirements, processes, and regulations.? ?  Provide callback and after-hours support as needed on a rotating basis as scheduled.? ?  Manager GRID, RMAN, DataGuard, Concurrent Manager, OAM, OEM,? ? Discoverer and Developer configuration and related technologies Database Administrator Robust - Upper Marlboro, MD - May 2014 to January 2017  Weekly cloning and refreshes of TEST Database with PROD data.?  Upgraded the Oracle 10g database to 11g version and also applied patch set and interim patches? ?  Monitoring the Oracle Instances, Users, Tables, Table spaces, Memory structures, and Rollback segments, Redo logs, Archived Redo logs and Alerts.? ?  Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN, Hot and Cold backups.? ?  Manage RAC instances using both srvctl and crsctl commands.?  Involved in Mass Agent Deployment using Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c.? ?  Perform logical backup using Data Pump.?  Setup and configured Oracle 11g/12c Physical Standby database (Data Guard) to ensure high availability.? ?  Expertise in creating Oracle Tables, Table Partitions, Views, and Materialized Views? ?  Upgrade 11.2.0.1 to 12.1.0.2 using DBUA?  Attend weekly meeting to discuss issues, progress of different projects and successful implementation.?  Create SQL script for to manage database space availability.?  Created and managed user accounts, profiles and system policies.?  Scheduling backups using the crontab utility? ?  Experience in monitoring and managing of Oracle instances using Enterprise Manager Grid Control (OEM Grid)?  Migrated data using the data pump export (expdp) and import (impdp)? ?  Created non-default listeners for databases.? ?  Monitor Oracle database using database console.? ?  Provided Oracle database administrative support to various user groups (application developers, data managers etc.);?  Control and monitor user access to the database using roles, and profiles 24 hr. on call rotation? ?  Performed hands-on monitoring, troubleshooting and administration of Local Area Network (LAN) resulting in performance and minimum downtime in the organization.?  Create and Maintain of Databases through DBCA?  Knowledge in Database performance monitoring & tuning?  Investigate potential problems and issues raised by business users?  Create and Assign Roles, Privileges and Profiles to Users?  Monitoring Alert logs for any errors, problems or processes running?  Configuration and working with RMAN (Recovery Manager).?  Knowledge in cloning using cold backup, hot backup and RMAN Database Administrator Anola Consulting & Associates - Silver Spring, MD - May 2013 to June 2014  Planning, installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of oracle 10g and 11g databases on Linux and Windows OS?  Performed database upgrade from 10g to 11g and 11g to 12c using DBUA?  Manage Oracle 2 node RAC on Solaris 10 using srvctl and crsctl commands?  Installation and Management of Oracle using Grid 11g and 12c and database control by installing the software and agent, this I used to manage multiple databases.?  Installation and application of several oracle critical patches to various database versions looked for critical path for the OS and also had to check the location of my O-Patch.?  Monitored, optimized and allocated physical data storage for database systems?  Implemented the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) to back up the databases.?  Performed import and export as needed on each database.?  Performed various daily RMAN backups and recovery for numerous oracle 10g and 11g databases using physical back (RMAN) and logical backup (export, import and data pump).?  24/7 production environment support?  Troubleshoot and resolved various oracle problems such as connectivity problems, back up and performance issues?  Provided Oracle network troubleshooting, technical and administrative duties?  Resolved complex database issues.?  Created and managed documentation on the configuration and support of the oracle databases.?  Applied security features to 10g and 11g databases?  Tuned the database and applications for faster and better performance also performed goal oriented tuning as necessary Education B.s in Accounting in Accounting Wilmington University Skills Database (4 years), databases. (3 years), Oracle (4 years), Oracle 10g (3 years), RMAN (4 years) Additional Information SUMMARY OF SKILLS:?  Creating and managing users.?  Experience and skills in Oracle RDBMS versions 9i through 12c, Oracle Applications (Financials), Oracle Application Server (OAS), Oracle 10g Application Server (10gAS), PL/SQL, Oracle Portal, RMAN, SQLnet, and Oracle Application Express (APEX) products to include building new Oracle instances and schemas; migration of application database subsystems; troubleshooting and diagnostics of Oracle RDBMS system and vendor software; and monitoring and tuning Oracle RDBMS.?  Provide technical support such as senior level database management support in the broad range of maintenance and utilization of the Oracle Database software operating an enterprise architecture of, LINUX, , WINDOWS, SOLARIS, HP-UX, and other MID-Tier systems.?  Provide system management role by troubleshooting, reviewing and monitoring database issues.?  Performs general DBA duties (install software, create databases, table spaces, add redo log files.?  Performs daily database backup of development and test environments.?  Excellent troubleshooting skills?  Identify and make recommendations per database performance issues?  Knowledge of managing Oracle on Windows?  Use DBCA to create and DBUA to upgrade Oracle databases?  Prepare documentation for DBA department?  Implements/maintains database security with roles and system privileges?  Experience working in a help desk and call center environment.?  Demonstrate ability to quickly diffuse heated customer situations.?  Excellent troubleshooting and logical problem solving skills.?  Creative ability to solve unusual or difficult problems when logical methods have failed.?  Demonstrate ability to meet deadlines and set priorities.?  Strong communication and interpersonal skills.?  Ability and desire to learn new technologies quickly.? ? TECHNICAL STRENGTHS & CERTIFICATIONS? ?  Oracle Database 11g SQL?  Oracle Database 12c? ? TECHNICAL PROFILE? Relational Databases: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12C RDBMS, Microsoft SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008? Operating systems: Microsoft, DOS v2.x - 6.x, Windows NT 4.0, Windows 2000, 2003 & 2008 Advanced Server, Unix(Solaris, Linux)? Networking Topologies / Protocols: Ethernet, TCP/IP & router configuration? Programming Languages: SQL, QL*PLUS? Software Applications/Tools and Utilities:? OEM, RMAN, TOAD, TKPROF, STATSPACK, REPLICATION, DATA MIGRATION-EXPORT-IMPORT
Database Developer;Database Developer;Database Developer;Database Developer;Database Developer;Database Developer:::Database Developer Database Developer - HBC Digital Sunnyside, NY - Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Database Developer HBC Digital - New York, NY - July 2016 to Present Develop various SQL scripts to create various database objects and to implement complex business logic.? ? Develop various Shell scripts to automate and process complex business logic.? ? Optimize the SQL queries by using explain plan, partitions and indexes.? ? Analyse the data requirements for the customized reports, identify the mappings and generate reports by creating various Stored Procedures, Functions and Packages.? ? Develop and automate ETL processes using Informatica & PL/SQL.? ? Work on analysis, design, development, implementation and support of the enterprise data warehouse.? ? Scheduled and monitored jobs in Automic.? Environment: Oracle 11g R2, SQL Developer, Shell Script, SQL Loader, Informatica, MongoDB, Automic, JIRA Database Developer INFOGROUP - Burlington, MA - February 2016 to June 2016 Developed and automated ETL processes using Talend ETL tool.? ? Processed huge sets of data using set based approach for faster execution.? ? Extensively used Partitions & Hints and created materialized views for faster data retrieval.? ? Used advanced features of Oracle in the code developed.? ? Developed various Shell scripts & SQL scripts to automate data processing.? Environment: Oracle 10g/11g, Windows, PL/SQL, SQL Loader, Batch Scripting, PL/SQL Developer, Toad, SQL Developer, UNIX, Talend. Database Developer VONAGE - Holmdel, NJ - December 2012 to February 2016 Gathered business requirements and various developed logical, physical and dimensional models.? ? Created Packages, Procedures, Functions, Triggers and other Database objects.? ? Developed various SQL & Shell scripts to automate data processing.? ? Developed PERL scripts to cleanse, validate data in flat files and extract data from XML files.? ? Developed & Automated complex ETL processes in INFORMATICA.? ? Used various transformations like Filter, Expression, Sequence Generator, Update Strategy, Joiner, Stored Procedure, and Union to develop robust mappings in the Informatica Designer.? ? Worked on database migration from MySQL to Oracle.? ? Tuned SQL & PL/SQL code using enhanced features of Oracle.? ? Created and maintained various database objects in various databases like Oracle, Mysql, PostgreSQL and SQL server.? Environment: Oracle 11g, Teradata, PGsql, Mysql, SQL Server, Java, HP-Unix, Toad for Oracle 11.6, SQL server management studio, Eclipse, Putty, VSS, SQL*Plus, Toad Data Modeler, Aqua Data Studio, Tortoise SVN, UNIX Shell Scripting. Database Developer FANNIE MAE - Reston, VA - November 2011 to November 2012 Gathered business requirements and developed various Packages, procedures, triggers and other database objects.? ? Developed shell scripts to automate repetitive database tasks.? ? Developed, tested and plugged in SQL queries in the UNIX framework to generate ad hoc reports.? ? Used SQL*LOADER to load data into database.? ? Extensively used bulk SQL, REF cursors, Records and Collections to process large amount of data.? ? Developed complex ETL processes in INFORMATICA.? Environment: Oracle 11.2g/10.2g, HP-Unix, TOAD 10.6, Putty 0.62 ERWIN-R7, ASP.NET 2.0, Microsoft Clearcase 8.0, IBM rational clear quest 7.0.0, BMC Remedy 7.6.04, Share Point. Database Developer COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA - Harrisburg, PA - November 2010 to October 2011 Gathered business requirements and developed various packages, procedures, functions, triggers and other database objects.? ? Modified existing PL/SQL code to make enhancements in the application.? ? Created data models of various schemas in the application by using reverse engineering feature of ERWIN.? ? Tuned SQL queries and PL/SQL code by using Explain Plan, Auto Trace and DBMS_PROFILER to optimize the subprogram units.? ? Debugged various program units by using DBMS_OUTPUT oracle supplied package.? ? Used dynamic SQL to develop flexible programs.? ? Developed test plans and technical documents related to the code developed.? Environment: Oracle 11.2g/10.2g, HP-Unix, TOAD 10.6, ERWIN-R7, ASP.NET 2.0, VSS 2005, IBM rational clear quest 7.0.0, BMC Remedy, Visual Studio 2005, Share Point Database Developer HDFC Bank - IN - May 2005 to July 2008 Created various tables, procedures, functions and packages and other database objects to implement business logic.? ? Created various SQL & Shell scripts for automation.? ? Used collections, records and Ref cursors to process large amount of data.? ? Involved in the optimization of SQL queries using Oracle Hints, Explain Plan and Auto Trace.? ? Created materialized views for faster data retrieval.? ? Developed technical documents and test plans.? ? Performed unit testing of the code written.? Environment: Oracle 9i, Windows NT, VSS, Serena Mover, TOAD, SQL *PLUS, Unix Education MASTER'S in COMPUTER SCIENCE Stratford University - Falls Church, VA Bachelor's of Science in Electronics and Communication Engineering Punjab Technical University Skills Database (9 years), ETL (5 years), Oracle (9 years), SQL (9 years), UNIX (8 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/vishal--kumar Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS? Languages: PL/SQL, SQL, PERL, JAVA, UNIX, C, C++, C #, VB.NET, HTML? Databases: Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Vertica, SQL Server & MS-Access? ETL Tools: Informatica, Talend? Data Modeling: Physical, Logical, Relational and Dimensional Modeling? Operating Systems: Unix, Sun Solaris, HP-UX, Windows? Scripting: Shell Scripting & PERL scripting? Reporting tools: Crystal Reports, Oracle Reports? File Transfer tools: Filezilla, Winscp? Job Scheduler tools: Automic, Control M? Tools/Utilities: TOAD, Putty, SQL Developer, Eclipse, Aqua Data Studio, SQL*LOADER, IBM rational clear quest, BMC Remedy, ERWIN, Tableau
Database Specialist;Senior Database Administrator;Senior Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Database Specialist Database Specialist -  Over Eleven Years of working experience in SQL Server as Database Administrator in IT, Banking & Finance, Commercial, ecommerce environments.?  Having good experience in SQL server Architecture & Implementation. SQL Server Administration?  Experience on installing, configuring, managing, monitoring and troubleshooting SQL server.?  Experience in creating databases based on functional requirements and system design.?  Developing the successful Backup strategies based on Recovery models.?  Migrating Databases from SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2012.?  Monitoring Database performance and optimizing performance.?  Design, document, and promote security "best practices", policies, standards and protocols.?  Migrating application code and objects from development/test environments to production.?  Implementation of Database maintenance plan.?  Implementation of effective Indexing methods in order to boost the performance.?  Hands on experience in fine-tuning queries and stored procedures and troubleshooting performance issues.?  Implementation of Log Shipping, Replication.?  Creating and maintain SSIS, SSRS and SSAS packages?  Experience On-Call duties as assigned on a rotational basis.?  Experience in Performance Tuning and Optimization (PTO).?  Creating and maintaining Always On availability groups (HADR/ Replica).?  Experience on indexes, index management, and statistics.?  Knowledge on Relational databases, oracle, Sybase.?  Experience in supporting SQL Server production database instances.?  Experience with Business Intelligence Concepts like Data Reporting and Data Analysis.?  Performance Monitor for maintaining performance.?  Experience in using SQL monitoring tools like Spotlight, Idera.?  Experience in using Tivoli Storage Manager (TSM) for backups.?  Experience in working with Change Data Capture of SQL server 2012 and Resource Governor.?  Experience in PowerShell Scripting.?  Possess good technical and process documentation skills.?  Experience in schema designing and data modeling tools. Work Experience Database Specialist Societe Generale - New York, NY - July 2010 to June 2015 Description:? Societe Generale (SocGen) is a French multinational banking and financial services company headquartered in Paris. The company is a universal bank split into three main divisions, Retail Banking and Specialized Financial Services (particularly in France and Eastern Europe), Corporate and Investment Banking (Derivatives, Structured Finance and Euro Capital Markets) and Global Investment Management and Services.? ? Roles & Responsibilities:?  Involved in installation and configuration of SQL server 2000,2005,2008R2,2012.?  Maintaining the database systems includes but is not limited to ensuring successful backups, resolving system issues, opening cases with technical support to resolve issues, monitoring success and failure of automated jobs, monitor system availability, updating system documentation, system and database recovery, etc.?  Updating database systems by reviewing, planning, testing and installing database security patches and service packs.?  Worked on Projects to provide DBA support for Building SQL Servers for new applications (begin to end support).?  Migrating Databases from SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2012.?  Implementing Backup and recovery plans for bigger databases of 1TB size.?  Implemented Always on High availability and Disaster recovery on all migrated instances.?  Resolving SQL Clustering (FCI) Failures.?  Responsible for configuration of Microsoft Server/Client Products and implementation.?  Involved in planning Disaster recovery solutions.?  Development of a data strategy and associated polices.?  Selection of capabilities and systems to meet business information needs.?  Managing 2000 plus databases at the headquarters running on 250 servers.?  Working with development and systems teams to perform application and database tuning.?  In conjunction with development teams, define and maintain database and code standards and naming conventions for the organization to ensure consistency in database and code development.?  Developed SQL scripts for maintaining administration tasks.?  Setup, test and maintain business continuity/disaster recovery infrastructure database and applications.?  Created DTS packages to maintain central repository. Extensively used different SQL2000 DTS tasks.?  Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of User Support.?  Controlling SQL Server Locking and finding and removing Deadlocks.?  Extensively used TSM lite speed backups.?  Troubleshooting Log shipping issues and Jobs.?  Ensuring high availability of the database exploiting the concepts of Mirroring, Replication, log shipping and clustering.?  Creating and maintaining SSIS, SSRS and SSAS packages.?  Daily routine DBA tasks like handling user's permissions and space issues on Production and Semi-Production Servers and handling maintenance Jobs.?  Resolving alerts raised by the monitoring tool spotlight.?  Handled monthly Database Refresh in QA-Test environment for testing of new Deployments and Build.?  Good experience in data modeling and metadata services.? ? Application Environment: SQL Server 2012, sql server 2008R2, SQL Server 2005, Win 2008 Server.? ? Project-2: Senior Database Administrator Patni Computers ltd -Centex Homes - Dallas, TX - February 2009 to July 2010 Description: Dallas-based Centex is one of the nation's leading home building companies. Its leading brands include Centex Homes, Fox & Jacobs Homes and City Homes. In addition to its home building operations, Centex also offers mortgage, title and insurance services. Centex has ranked among the top three builders on FORTUNE magazine's list of "America's Most Admired Companies" for nine straight years and is a leader in quality and customer satisfaction.? ? ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES?  Involved in installation and configuration of SQL server 2000,2005,2008.?  Applied patches and service packs to keep the database at current patch level.?  Responsible for configuration of Microsoft Server/Client Products and implementation.?  Worked on Projects to provide DBA support for Building SQL Servers for new applications (begin to end support)?  Managing 500 plus databases at the headquarters running on 107 servers?  Developed SQL scripts for maintaining administration tasks.?  Created DTS packages to maintain central repository. Extensively used different SQL2000 DTS tasks.?  Health checking the Production servers.?  SQL server Architecture & Implementation. SQL Server Administration?  Creating and maintain SSIS, SSRS and SSAS packages?  Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of User Support.?  Controlling SQL Server Locking and finding and removing Deadlocks?  Recover databases in case of any crashes.?  Troubleshooting Log shipping issues and Jobs.?  Ensuring high availability of the database exploiting the concepts of Mirroring , Replication , log shipping and clustering.? ? Application Environment: Sql server 2008R2, SQL Server 2005, Win 2008 Server.? ? Project: 3 Senior Database Administrator PatniComputers ltd Metlife - February 2008 to February 2009 Description: MetLife Life Insurance Company is a leading financial protection company and a premier provider of life insurance, annuity, and investment products and services.? ? Roles & Responsibilities:?  Installation, configuration and upgrading of Microsoft SQL Server 2000,2005.?  Establish and maintain sound backup and recovery policies and procedures.?  Take care of the Database design and implementation.?  Implement and maintain database security (create and maintain users and roles, assign privileges).?  Database tuning and performance monitoring.?  Application tuning and performance monitoring.?  SQL server Architecture & Implementation. SQL Server Administration?  Setup and maintain documentation and standards.?  Plan growth and changes (capacity planning).?  Work as part of a team and provide 7?4 supports when required.?  Do general technical trouble shooting and give consultation to development teams.?  Ensuring high availability of the database exploiting the concepts of Mirroring , Replication , log shipping and clustering.? ? Application Environment: Sql server 2008, SQL Server 2005, Win 2003 Server.? ? Project-4: Database Administrator Comcreation Pvt Ltd-Easy Link Services - March 2007 to February 2008 Description: Easy Link Services Trade Network is a neutral, next-generation network that securely and reliably translates trades between the buyer and supplier. This is a complex system that involves secure connectivity, rapid data transformation, and detailed reporting and tracking capabilities. In addition, the infrastructure unconditionally ensures the integrity of each trade 24x7x365, and provides a means for small and medium-sized enterprise collaboration without the heavy up-front investment.? ? Roles & Responsibilities:?  SQL server Architecture & Implementation. SQL Server Administration?  Involved in configuring and converting MS SQL server 2000 database to MS SQL Server 2005?  Partially involved in Database design and Database objects.?  Created backups for databases.?  Partly Involved in Performance tuning?  Installing SQL server 2005 databases?  Health checking the Production servers.?  Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of User Support.?  Controlling SQL Server Locking and finding and removing Deadlocks?  Recover databases in case of any crashes.?  Creating and maintain SSIS, SSRS and SSAS packages?  Troubleshooting Log shipping issues and Jobs.?  Ensuring high availability of the database exploiting the concepts of Mirroring, Replication and log shipping.? ? Application Environment: SQL Server 2005, 2000, sql server 7, sql server6.5? ? Project-5: Database Administrator Comcreation Pvt Ltd Mosaic - March 2005 to February 2007 Description: Mosaic is the world's leading producer and marketer of concentrated phosphate and potash, two of the primary nutrients required to grow the food the world needs. Business engages in every phase of crop nutrition development, from the mining of resources to the production of crop nutrients, feed and industrial products for customers around the globe. Customer base includes wholesalers, retail dealers and individual growers in more than 40 countries.? ? Roles & Responsibilities:? ?  Involved in configuring and converting MS SQL server 7.0 database to MS SQL Server 2000?  Partially involved in Database design and Database objects.?  Created backups for databases.?  Partly Involved in Performance tuning?  Installing SQL server 2000 databases?  Health checking the Production servers.?  Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of User Support.?  Controlling SQL Server Locking and finding and removing Deadlocks?  Recover databases in case of any crashes.?  Troubleshooting Log shipping issues and Jobs.?  Ensuring high availability of the database exploiting the concepts of replication and log shipping.? ? Application Environment: SQL Server 2000, sql server 7, sql server6.5. Education MBA Bangalore University - Bangalore, Karnataka BSc. in Computers Srikrishna Devaraya University Skills DATABASE (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), REPLICATION (10+ years), SECURITY (10+ years), SHIPPING (10+ years) Additional Information Skill Set? ? ? SQL Server [?]? ? Planning and Creating Database Maintenance Plans.? ? Backup storage planning Database Design and Implementation.? ? SQL Clustering.? ? Log Shipping.? ? Database Mirroring and Replication.? ? Always on high availability configuration.? ? Data Transformation and Loading through SSIS.? ? OLAP Administration via Microsoft SQL Server Analysis Services.? ? Fine Tuning and Monitoring SQL Server.? ? SQL Server capacity planning.? ? Server and Database Security Administration.? ? PowerShell Scripting.? ? Monitoring tools used were spotlight,Idera,etc.? ? PAYCHEX INC - WEBSTER, NY Dec 2015 -Current? Database Specialist? ? Description:? ? Paychex, Inc. is an American provider of payroll, human resource, and benefits outsourcing services for small- to medium-sized businesses. With headquarters in Penfield, New York, the company has more than 100 offices serving approximately 580,000 payroll clients,? ? Roles & Responsibilities:? ?  Involved in Building 3rd Datacenter for Paychex In Omaha, Out Of Region.?  Involved in installation and configuration of SQL Server, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016.?  Maintaining the database systems includes but is not limited to ensuring successful backups, resolving system issues, opening cases with technical support to resolve issues, monitoring success and failure of automated jobs, monitor system availability, updating system documentation, system and database recovery, etc.?  Worked on Cloud Technologies , Azure.?  Updating database systems by reviewing, planning, testing and installing database security patches and service packs.?  Worked on Projects to provide DBA support for Building SQL Servers for new applications (begin to end support).?  Migrating Databases from SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2012, 2014.?  Monitoring tools used Idera, SCOM.?  Implementing Backup and recovery plans for bigger databases of 1TB size.?  Implemented Always on High availability and Disaster recovery on all migrated instances.?  Resolving SQL Clustering (FCI) Failures.?  Responsible for configuration of Microsoft Server/Client Products and implementation.?  Involved in planning Disaster recovery solutions.?  Development of a data strategy and associated polices.?  Selection of capabilities and systems to meet business information needs.?  Managing 2000 plus databases at the headquarters running on 250 servers.?  Working with development and systems teams to perform application and database tuning.?  In conjunction with development teams, define and maintain database and code standards and naming conventions for the organization to ensure consistency in database and code development.?  Developed SQL scripts for maintaining administration tasks.?  Setup, test and maintain business continuity/disaster recovery infrastructure database and applications.?  Created DTS packages to maintain central repository. Extensively used different SQL2000 DTS tasks.?  Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of User Support.?  Controlling SQL Server Locking and finding and removing Deadlocks.?  Extensively used TSM lite speed backups.?  Troubleshooting Log shipping issues and Jobs.?  Ensuring high availability of the database exploiting the concepts of Mirroring, Replication, log shipping and clustering.?  Creating and maintaining SSIS, SSRS and SSAS packages.?  Daily routine DBA tasks like handling user's permissions and space issues on Production and Semi-Production Servers and handling maintenance Jobs.?  Resolving alerts raised by the monitoring tool spotlight.?  Handled monthly Database Refresh in QA-Test environment for testing of new Deployments and Build.?  Good experience in data modeling and metadata services.? ? Application Environment: SQL Server 2016, SQL Server 2014, SQL Server 2012, sql server 2008R2, SQL Server 2005, Win 2008 Server, Win 2012 Server.
Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator/Developer;Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator - SAVVIS St. Louis, MO - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator SAVVIS - St. Louis, MO - August 2015 to Present SAVVIS, formerly SVVS on NASDAQ and formerly known as SAVVIS Communications Corporation, and, later, SAVVIS Inc., is a subsidiary of Century Link, a company headquartered in Monroe, Louisiana. The company sells managed hosting and collocation services with more than 50 data centers (over 2 million square feet) in North America, Europe, and Asia, automated management and provisioning systems, and information technology consulting. SAVVIS has approximately 2,500 unique business and government customers.? ? Responsibilities:?  Provide Production Support and give 24/7 on-call support?  Involved in the DB Migration process from one Data Center to another data center.?  Installed and Configure SQL server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008 R2, SQL 2008 Active/Active and Active/Passive Cluster on production servers.?  Day-to-day Technical Support on MS SQL Server 2014/2012/2008 R2 Servers Platform for Production, Test and Development Environments (Clustered/non-clustered).?  Used the PowerShell scripting to get the most consistent production environment.?  Used PowerShell to manage SSIS packages across multiple SQL server instances.?  Implement code changes and configuration changes (if needed) and other administrative activities?  Technical support to users for various purposes like Access change, performance issues and storage space managements on RAID/SAN drives.?  Prepare RCA (Root Cause Analysis) using Profiler Trace, Perform on counters with System Monitor.?  Created SSIS Packages on production and development environment.?  Recommend possible remedies for better performance.?  Designed SSIS Packages to extract, transfer, load (ETL) existing data into SQL Server from different environments for the SSAS cubes.?  Work in cooperation with developers/team for achievement of efficient database access for applications. This includes activities like designing, adding, eliminating, or maintaining indexes, organizing tables, recommending SQL changes to application development teams?  Involve in Microsoft Azure - assessment of enterprise applications for viability for migration to cloud.?  To ensure all scheduled administrative/business jobs are running/completed for daily/adhoc business cycle on Microsoft SQL Servers in Production, Dev and QA Environment.?  Setting up Transactional and snapshot Replication for Production Environment.?  Running various DBCC commands for administration of database objects and system performance.?  24x7 Technical Support for Production OLTP and Data Warehouse based on Microsoft SQL Server 2005 and 2008 Servers/databases.?  To ensure all scheduled administrative jobs are running/completed for Microsoft SQL Servers.?  Involved in working with the system/storage administrators to appropriately spread files across the SAN drives.?  Good Knowledge of SAN, LAN (local area network), WAN.?  Experience of Cisco's UCSD to support virtual environments and new data center architectures.?  Interaction with client and onsite team members.? ? Environment: SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008 R2, 2008, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, SQL Safe, IDERA, SQL Litespeed. Database Administrator State Farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL - January 2014 to July 2015 State Farm is a group of insurance and financial services companies in the United States. In 2014, the company sold its operations in Canada to Desjardins Group, which is continuing to use the State Farm name. The group's core business is State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company, a mutual insurance firm that also owns the other State Farm companies. The corporate headquarters are in Bloomington, Illinois. State Farm is ranked 44th in the 2013 Fortune 500, which lists American companies by revenue. Database Administrator/Developer GRACO - Minneapolis, MN - May 2012 to December 2013 Graco is an American manufacturer of fluid-handling systems and products based in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Graco serves almost all markets. Providing products for painting, anti-corrosion, fluid transfer, gluing applications for markets like Automotive, Aeronautic, Body refinish,[6] wood, building and construction,[7] marine They distribute through several companies including Integrity Supply.? ? Responsibilities:?  Experience in improving SQL Server Database performance using Index Tuning Wizard, SQL Profiler and execution plans.?  Installed a New SQL server 2008/2008R2 on windows server 2003/2008 and upgrade 2008 from 2005.?  Create the disaster recovery plan for production server and development server.?  Support and develop multiple SQL Server Databases and ensure all the developed SQL Server components functions in the production environments.?  Worked on Data Center Move project.?  Involved in the DB Migration process from one Data Center to another data center.?  Monitor database environments, related jobs end procedures Database tuning & optimization Write and maintain stored procedures Work with database tools and utilities for administration and development.?  Sending and Receiving the data and Images using XML technology.?  Daily support - resolve problems promptly with good solutions Backup and recovery - maintain appropriate file retention, manage rollback segments, etc.?  Migration of DTS packages to the SSIS on SQL Server 2008.?  Developed complex stored procedures (T-SQL) for front-end application and reports.?  Maintain Fail-Over and Back-up system through use of transaction logs and Snapshot and Transactional Replication. Configured and maintained Log Shipping Environments for 2 projects.?  Managing the use of disk space, memory and connections.?  Capacity planning - properly sizes and organizes including archive logs; calculate optimum disk space, memory, etc.?  Assisted programmers on writing queries to enable application tuning.?  Manage hardware configurations and considerations for SQL Server environment Recommend security of databases; insure that policies are adhered to when they are approved and implemented.?  Documented System and Unit test cases for the modules developed.?  Remarkable learning capability and problem-solving skills.?  Used Red-gate tools for Log based recovery.?  Creating Database users, controlling access to SQL Server and making sure right people get access to right data and looking after the security issues.?  Remotely Manage SQL Server 2008/2008R2/2012.?  Triggers, jobs & created views and encryption of Stored Procedure on SQL Server 2008/2008R2.? ? Environment: SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, SSIS, Win 2003, 2008 Server, Win 2003 Cluster, Reporting Services (SSRS), Analysis services (SSAS), MS Visual Studio 2005, ASP, ASP.Net, Java script Database Administrator Caterpillar - Peoria, IL - March 2011 to April 2012 Caterpillar Inc., is an American corporation which designs, manufactures, markets and sells machinery, engines, financial products and insurance to customers via a worldwide dealer network. Caterpillar is the world's leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines, industrial gas turbines and diesel-electric locomotives? ? As a DBA I am fully responsible for five different production servers, a QA server and also a development server. My role is to move databases from SQL 2005 to SQL 2008, check consistency in the database, Archive the Old data and also working with some Business Analyst Requirement and some more Job Maintenance.? ? Responsibilities:?  Installing multiple instances of SQL Server 2008 R2 and database migration from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 R2.?  Implemented SQL Server with high availability architecture using SAN.?  Migration of New SQL server 2008 R2 from SQL server 2005.?  Create and modification of the database according to the requirement.?  Data migration using BCP utility and attach/ detach database.?  Create the jobs and also maintain the jobs as daily basis as well as weekly basis.?  Implemented a Disaster Recovery plans.?  Creating snapshot replication and transactional replication in the SQL Server 2008 R2.?  Transfer bunch of tables using SSIS packages.?  Partitioned a lot of tables, which had frequent inserts, deletes and updates to reduce the contention and to improve the performance.?  Wrote SSIS Script for data transfer and involved in the system designing.?  Installing service packs and security patches SQL Server 2005/2008 R2.?  Created logical and physical data modeling for development projects.?  Rebuild the indexes using DBCC re-index and also check index fragmentation.?  Testing QA server data with production servers.?  Check blocking process and send them via e-mail notification.?  Actively involved in Normalization and de-normalization database.?  Capacity planning in estimating and sizing of tables.?  Provided a support for data issues and support to the application developers on application database and given appropriate solutions.?  Set up SQL Mail and crated Jobs to automate and scheduling many tasks.?  Created heavy SSIS packages on SQL Server and Reporting Services on SQL Server 2008.?  Refreshing production databases.?  Development of policies and procedures for ensuring their security and integrity, analyzing the queries for performance.?  As a DBA, managing 10 different production Servers and several QA Servers in multiple countries supporting several hundreds of users.?  Maintained the production, test and development databases, tuned the database by improving relations, integrity constraints and written T-SQL procedures for transactions.?  Crated documentation of database design, reporting, data analysis, security, administration.? ? Environment: SQL Server 2008 R2/2008, SQL Server 2005, Used 40+ database, SQL Optimizer, DTS, SQL Log Manager, Win 2003, Win 2008 R2 Server, ASP, ASP.Net, SSIS, Reporting Service, Database Administrator - 2008 to February 2008 I am fully responsible for the day-to-day technical and operational activities of AccuQuote database server (SQL/SQL Server 2012, 2008 R2/2008 and Windows 2008 R2, 2008) however also responsible for troubleshooting, performance monitoring, tuning, backup/recovery, archiving, optimizing, script development and analysis of new technologies.? ? Responsibilities:?  Installed MS SQL server 2008/2008R2, 2012 and 2014 on all production servers and VMware products.?  Up gradation/Migration from earlier / legacy version to MS SQL Server2008R2 /2012 using suitable methods.?  Interacted with Business Analysts and Developers in identifying the requirements and designed SQL server accordingly.?  Administered MS SQL Server security by creating user logins with appropriate roles, monitored the user accounts, created groups and granted the privileges to users and groups.?  Worked with Developers to identify the issues from SQL Logs.?  Stored procedure optimization and index maintenance.?  As a Database developer, I am responsible for the managing and creating XML files using SQL 2008 R2.?  Maintain the SQL Backups on SAN through Lite Speed.?  Automated processes using SQL Server jobs and handled database objects with Enterprise Manager and Query Analyzer.?  Experienced some scripting with PowerShell.?  Used PowerShell to automate admin tasks.?  Installed SQL 2008 and 2008R2 Cluster on windows cluster environment.?  Performed Log shipping and Replication and all standard maintenance.?  Created SSIS Packages on production and development environment.?  Created and provided proper access use of Views to prevent unauthorized access.?  Maintenance of the database using the Database Maintenance Wizard to make some necessary changes and to keep the performance of the server at acceptable levels.?  Planned and Scheduled the Online/Offline Backups. Backed up master and system databases and restored them when necessary. Performed Log Backups and Restoration.?  Performed Capacity Monitoring, short and long-term capacity planning in collaboration with development resources, System Administrators and System Architects.?  Performed Database Administration and Management activities in a safe, recoverable and professional manner that ensures the optimal operation of all database environments.?  Created all SQL-Backup script and blocking script.?  Experience in Sharepoint service development and configuration.?  Tuned SQL queries using Profiler, Show Plans and Execution Plans for better performance. Employed Indexing Strategies and optimized them using DBCC commands & Index Tuning Wizard.?  Partitioned a lot of tables, which had frequent inserts, deletes and updates to reduce the contention and to improve the performance.?  Created and implemented the use the stored procedures and triggers to improve the performance and the business logic.?  Performed Data Transfer/Migration using Export/Import and Data Transformation Services (DTS)?  Created logins and maintained user permissions appropriately.? ? Environment: SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2008R2/2008, SSIS, SSRS, DTS, Win 2008 Server, SQL Back-up Red gate tool, SQL Server Business Intelligence Studio, XML Skills MS SQL Server (6 years), SQL (6 years), SQL server (6 years), SSRS (3 years), T-Sql (6 years), SSIS (4 years) Additional Information  IT Professional with 6+ years of experience in SQL Server Database Administration and SQL Server development in Mortgage Industry, Telecommunication industries, Insurance Industry and Waste Management Services.?  Experience in installation, maintenance of different versions of SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008 R2, and 2008 tools like SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, SQL Server Surface Area Configuration, Database Engine Tuning Advisor, BCP and Bulk Load.?  Expertise in Database Administration (DBA) tasks like Backups and Recovery, Log shipping, Mirroring, space utilization, load balance, process scheduling, security, replication, etc.?  Implemented High Availability & Disaster Recovery techniques like AlwaysOn Availability Groups, Clustering (Both Active-Active and Active--Passive), Database Mirroring, Log Shipping and Replication.?  Hands on experience in working with MSSQL SERVER 2005, 2008 and 2008R2, 2012, [?] features and extensive knowledge on SQL [?] new features.?  Exquisite skills in SSMS-Creating and scheduling jobs, alerts and operators with SQL Server Agent, handling Backup/Recovery of databases, Replication, Linked Servers, and Database Maintenance.?  Expertise in Performance Tuning, Index Tuning, Maintenance, Troubleshooting, Query Optimization, Client/Server connectivity and Database Consistency Checks using DBCC Utilities, DMVs and DMFs.?  Expert in using Native tools like SQL Server Profiler, Database Tuning Advisor and Perfmon.?  Hands-on experience in resolving locks deadlocks, handling Isolation levels and performance issues like CPU, I/O, Memory bottlenecks.?  Experience in planning and implementing Database Security by creating Logins, Users, Roles and assigning permissions according to the requirement.?  Expert in T-SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), and Data Transform Services (DTS).?  Configuring and maintaining Report Manager and Report Server for reporting services?  Handled numerous Change Management requests on production servers and Supported 24/7 Production on Call.?  Expertise in managing 100+ Server including SQL Server, Expertise in SQL Installation and Patching 2014, 2012, 2008 [?] on all windows servers.?  Implemented CLUSTERING, Mirroring, Log Shipping and Replication for Disaster Recovery and High Availability.?  Expertise in design and Plan HA Strategy.?  Understanding of ETL Process using Partitioned Tables, SSIS and Deploying SSIS Packages using Package Configuration along with Deployment utility.?  Using DMV's for performance analysis and Implementing Index Rebuild process for performance improvements based on Built - in SSMS reports.?  Expertise in system trouble shooting in production environment and development environments.?  Experience with VMware products.?  Expertise in work with End users and solving the issues.?  Experience Starting and stopping the Vi Client.?  Good knowledge of data ware housing project with knowledge of OLAP and OLTP.?  Good Knowledge of SAN, LAN (local area network), WAN.?  Experience in SharePoint including Administration, Development & Configuration.?  Expertise in developing stored procedure, Jobs and trigger in SQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008 R2, 2008 and 2005.?  Upgrade/Migration from earlier / legacy version to SQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008 R2/2008 and 2005 using suitable methods.?  Expertise working with Azure Cloud base services.?  Involved in building data warehouse using ETL Tools for creating analytical reports.?  Experience in Performance Tuning, Indexing and Query Optimization. Understanding of Query Execution Plans.?  Used third party tools like RED GATE, SQL Litespeed for Backup and Monitoring.?  Querying the database using the PowerShell scripts.?  Documenting procedures in run books.? ? TECHNICAL SKILLS:? Programming T-SQL.? RDBMS SQL Server [?] Ms-Access? Operating Systems [?] VM Ware? Tools and Utilities Red-Gate, Light Speed for Backup? Internet Technologies ASP.NET 1.1, ASP, VB Script, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML? Reporting Tools SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, Share Point, Crystal Report? Development Environment Visual Source Safe, Serena? SQL Server Tools SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Profiler, Query Analyzer, Export and Import
Senior Database Developer/DBA;Database Technical Leader;Database Administrator;Database Administrator/Developer;Database Administrator/Developer;Database Administrator/Developer;Database Administrator/Developer;Database Administrator, Developer, Setup and management;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator, Oracle Financials;Database Administrator;Systems Architect/Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator/Developer;Developer and Systems Administrator:::Senior Database Developer/DBA Senior Database Developer/DBA New York, NY - Work Experience Senior Database Developer/DBA McGraw-Hill Education - May 2014 to March 2017 Lead Developer. Analyzed Oracle 11G database for optimization, Wrote and optimized PL/SQL to process capture database changes and perform post process analytics. Push messages to Queue for MongoDB consumption. Familiarize with Amazon Web Services. Install Postgres. Monitor AWR, ASH and ADDM Reports to optimiize production application. Assist offshore developers with best coding practices for SQL/PLSQL.? Analyze data archiving options. Assist with Zero Downtime options. Help AGILE teams with sprints and deployments. Monitor unused indexes for deletion and optimization. Analyze 12C upgrade options for application code. Implement Edition Based Redefinition. Deploy 11G Change Data Capture. Database Technical Leader HBO - New York - August 2009 to May 2014 Production, Systems and Application Database Administration. Supported over 500 databases. Oracle 10G , 11G. SQL Server, NOSQL conference and planning. Created Cloud based data migration tool that is used 10,000 times per month for data backup, migration and deployments using PL/SQL internal API's, operating system independent and no client software required. Administered job scheduling tools Tidal and Autosys. Provided 24x7 support and assisted in tuning and troubleshooting Unix, Windows, Network, and Databases locally and hosted by Savvis. Setup and configured DR and balanced hosting for increased uptime. Bechmarking with HammerOra and Web Statistical reporting with NetInsight. Database Administrator Florida Department of Transportation - September 2008 to June 2009 Administered , configured, tuned Oracle? 9.2.0.8 on Aplha VMS, 10.2.0.3 on Solaris Sparc. 10 to 150 Terabytes. Installed and configured SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2008. Installed and configured? Oracle 10G Grid control to monitor various targets and email alerts? To on-call DBA. Provided 24/7 On-call production support. Configured and tuned Oracle ASM. Managed, scripted and tested migration of legacy systems and databases. Database Administrator/Developer Credit Suisse - December 2006 to September 2008 Installed and tuned Oracle multinode RAC and CRS 10.2.0.3. Upgrade Oracle Application Server from 9i to 10g. Tune/Rewrite PL/SQL portion of Forms/Reports Application to get 20X performance improvement. Assisted in QA of Oracle RAC database cloning process. Upgrade several Oracle Databases from 9i to 10G. Analysis of RAC hot block contention in ASM 10g installation. Convert database from flat files to Oracle ASM automatic disk management. Management of Partitions. Grid Control and EM alerts. Administer and develop Oracle Forms/ Reports, Discoverer Reports. Tune PL/SQL code for application developers. Handle high volume on-call production 24/7 support. Managed upgrade and patching for DST of over 600 databases. Administer Failover and Disaster Recovery using VCS, SRDF and BVC volume managers. Schedule and monitor jobs using Control M, cron and Oracle job scheduler. Monitor and manage Oracle streams. Two week Senior 11G Oracle classroom training. Database Administrator/Developer Real Estate Board NYC - June 2006 to December 2006 Upgraded Application Server and Databases to 10G.? Upgraded and developed Form/Reports for financial and research department.? Modifiy JSP and Java programs to enhance website. HYPERLINK "http://www.rebny.com" www.rebny.com. Remodel Property database to fit business requirements. Normalizing for clarity and flexibility, de-normalizing? Data Warehouse from "snowflake" to "star" schema when needed for performance and development ease. Database Administrator/Developer Genzyme Genetics - March 2005 to June 2006 Administered over 50 Oracle databases ranging from V7 to V10.1 all communication with each other. Setup/managed/monitored Oracle Streams to 9 sites around the US. Used Oracle Datapump to clone databases. Wrote PL/SQL scripts to monitor? Databases for accuracy and perform automated maintenance functions. Database Administrator/Developer Advisors.com - August 2001 to March 2005 Setup and Install multiple Oracle 8i ( 8.1.5 to 10g ) databases on Sun Sparc Solaris and RedHat Linux. Modeled and implemented data warehouse using Discoverer OLAP tool. Installed and Configured Oracle 9i and 10g Application Server. Administered Oracle Portal , created various web application using WEBDB/Portal development Kit. Managed portal Content and OID and Single Signon Security. Setup, Configured and customized business applications using Discoverer plus and Discoverer 4i Viewer. Installed and setup Oracle 9i Lite Webtogo Client and Mobile Client on Windows CE Pocket PC. Developed Oracle Forms using Forms 6i and running over the Internet via forms server.? Setup and Configure Reports Server. Setup and Configure Advanced Replication and Oracle Data Guard. Database Administrator, Developer, Setup and management Netfolio.com - February 2000 to August 2001 of several Oracle 8i ( 8.1.6.3 ) databases on Sun Solaris Parallel Server Cluster. Setup fail over and administered database configuration across development, QA, and production environments. Loaded java code into Oracle, setup Java database Object tables based on Object Types. Setup backups using SQL*Backtrack. Added Database pages to production demo site using WEBDB. Unix scripting? using ksh, scheduling via cron, system and database tuning and monitoring. Setup auto-alerts for application exception monitoring. Setup Web Server on Linux Redhat 7.0. Installed and setup Oracle 9i Application Server, Oracle Portal, Web Cache. Database Administrator Credit Suisse Asset Management - August 1999 to February 2000 Install and manager Oracle 8 and Oracle 8i on NT Servers, assisted in Data Modeling and creating API for moving data between Oracle and Siebel using Oracle WEBDB. Setup intranet application administration screens and reports. Database Administrator Donaldson, Lufkin, Jenrette - August 1998 to August 1999 Upgrade from Oracle 7 to Oracle 8. Monitoring production system with over 800 simultaneous users. Setup large scale Master - Master replication. Tuning database and application code. Created WEB based DBA request forms using Oracle Application Server. Database Administrator, Oracle Financials McKinsey - July 1997 to August 1998 10.7. Responsible for tuning, applying patches, automating backups using SQL*Backtrak and ADSM. Unix Scripts to page personnel for alerts.? Setup Enterprise Manager to monitor enterprise-wide database installations. Rollout of Oracle Financials to worldwide offices. Database Administrator SYMMETRIC REPLICATION - June 1996 to June 1997 performed database tuning for several ORACLE V7 databases on RS6000 SMP running AIX 4.1 with Macintosh Clients and Hypercard applications. Aided in upgrade from ORACLE V6 to ORACLE V7.2, and upgrade from SQL Net V1 to SQL NET V2. Install and upgrade from 7.1 to 7.3. Worked with SNAPSHOT, a read-only version of SYMMETRIC REPLICATION. Systems Architect/Database Administrator NYNEX - July 1995 to December 1995 administered ORACLE V7 distributed databases. Approximately 40 databases on 25 UNIX IBM AIX Servers, 600 users. Patrol V2 and V3 used to monitor databases, UNIX Servers and networks. PC client running ORACLE Forms 4.0 and 4.5, ORACLE*Reports 2.0 and 2.5, Browser 1.0 and 2.0. Data Replication and Distribution over LAN and WAN using SQL*Net V1 and V2 TCP. ORACLE V7, SNAPSHOT. Database Administrator Deutsche Bank - February 1995 to July 1995 administered ORACLE V7 MPP (Parallel Server) IBM SP2 multi-node cluster. Assisted in conversion of code, optimization and tuning of trading application converted from COBOL/CICS/WANG to Microfocus CICS 6000 IBM AIX. Installed and setup ODBC connections from Microsoft Access to ORACLE RDBMS. Database Administrator Computer Sciences Corporation - April 1994 to February 1995 administered several ORACLE V7 databases on various platforms (DEC Ultrix, Alpha OSF, Sun Sparc, HP-UX). Set up distribution between databases. Installed and administered ORACLE CASE. Converted legacy systems using CASE*Designer and CASE*Dictionary 5.0 and 5.1. Maintained logical and physical data models for over 30 applications, maintained data sharing and CASE environment for over 100 data modelers. Installed and configured database and CASE on laptops for portable modeling using Windows/OS2 environment. Database Administrator Allied Signal - August 1993 to April 1994 administered financial application, MS Windows Client running HOLOS EIS-DSS. ORACLE V7 database on sequent server.? Developed and implemented logical and physical database design. Administered Financial Data Warehouse using ORACLE CASE, ERWIN, and ORACLE CDE. Developed software using UNIX scripts, SQLPLUS, SQL*Loader and Pro*C to bridge software from legacy systems into Data Warehouse. Database Administrator Ford Motor Company OFI - February 1993 to August 1993 administered Marketing Application using MS Windows Client and IBM AIX Server using ORACLE V6. Optimized/Normalized database dictionary. Developed and optimized reports using SQL*Plus, C, Pro*C, and SQL Reportwriter. Developed DB model for automotive distributed application. Unix platforms included DEC/SUN/IBM. Developed interfaces using OCI and Pro*C. Database Administrator Sky Chefs - February 1992 to February 1993 was responsible for the administration and development of Corporate Budgeting System. MS Windows client using Excel, Sun Sparc server with ORACLE V5 and V6. Networked w/Token ring, Ethernet and SLIP. Optimized, normalized DB design. Optimized physical storage, IO, CPU and memory. Setup and implemented hot and cold backup procedures. Database Administrator/Developer Convex Computer Corporation - July 1988 to February 1992 designed, developed, implemented and administered corporate manufacturing/planning/quality assurance/tracking application. Convex UNIX Server running ORACLE V5 and V6. Developed user interfaces with SQL*Forms 2.3 converted to 3.0, SQL*Menu, ReportWriter, SQL*Plus, C, and Pro*C. Developed automatic planning, notification, and alert system with UNIX scripts, electronic mail, Internet and C programs. Developed software for computer system self diagnosis, yields, process control, quality control, cycle times and configuration management, seamless data transfer between UNIX and VAX via CSH/DCL scripts and ftp. Developer and Systems Administrator Texas Instruments - January 1980 to July 1988 designed and developed software control management system and software trouble reporting system using Informix 4GL and C on HPUX. Developed Reliability Data Collection System to collect/analyze and report test data on HARM Missile project using ORACLE V4 and HPUX. Convert to Informix. Statistical analysis reports written in SAS. Developed reports and charts for engineering analysis on IBM mainframe using Pascal and FORTRAN on VM/VMS OS. Education Computer Science University of North Texas Collin County Junior College AAS in Computer Science Texas State Technical Institute Skills Application Server (8 years), Database (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Unix (10+ years) Additional Information Skill Summary: Oracle Enterprise Database v4, v5, v6, v7, v8, v8i, v9i, v10g, v11g,12c? NOSQL, MongoDB, Cassandra,Postgres? Oracle RAC [?] , Parallel Server? ASM Automatic Storage management? Oracle Cluster Manger? Oracle Symmetrical Replication, Streams, Materialized Views? Oracle Application Server 9i, 10g? Portal, SSO, OID, SSL, Oracle Discoverer, Forms/Reports Server? Oracle Wallet Manager, Web Cache, J2EE, OC4J? Oracle Forms/Reports v2.3, V3.0, V4.5, v6, v9? Oracle RMAN 10g, Online/offline/logical/physical backups? SQLNet, V1, V2? Oracle Hot Standby, Data Guard? Oracle Patapump, Import/Export , SQL Backtrack? Unix scripting ( sh, ksh, csh, bash, perl )? Cron, Oracle Job Scheduling? Oracle Enterprise Manager ( java and html version ), BMC Patrol, GRID? Oracle 9i Lite WebtoGo? Oracle Designer, ERWIN - Modeling OLTP and OLAP? SQL-Plus/ PL-SQL Pro*C? UNIX OS ( Linux {sles, redhat, ubuntu}, AIX, Solaris, HPUX )? Windows 98, 2000, XP, Vista? MS Word, Excel, Project, Powerpoint? MAC OSX, Leapord, Tiger
Database Administrator/Developer;Database Administrator:::Database Administrator/Developer Alexandria, VA - I am skilled Database administrator. I have 5 years of extensive experience general database administration and developer, Managed 50 databases in 24/7 data processing environment. Install, administer, manage and maintenance SQL Server databases through multiple product lifecycle (Test, Dev, Production) environments from development to mission-critical production systems. My experiences include, but are not limited to:? SQL Server RDBMS design, T-SQL, creating queries, stored procedures, views, triggers. Verify maintain & troubleshoot database backups, integrity checks, and scheduled jobs. Configuration and troubleshoot Log Shipping, Replication and Mirroring for high availability. Managing day to day SQL Server operations such as review SQL Server Error log, check database consistency, check and verify SQL Server Job status, automating backups using maintenance plans and automated backup scripts. Managing security through logins, users and roles, Resolve authentication and permission issues of database users. I am Self-motivated, good communicable, analytical, organizational and interpersonal skills. Exceptional ability in learning and understanding new technology quickly. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator/Developer Bridge IT support services LLc - Alexandria, VA - March 2015 to Present BITSS is an IT service company providing database design and business intelligence solutions. A small business organization, design and program a whole new custom database application. Enhancing and fix existing database and move the database to the cloud. BITSS provides a custom suite solution. I am working as a Database Administrator including some tasks of developer manages and configures different applications.? ? Responsibilities;?  Managing day to day SQL Server operations such as review SQL Server Error log, check database consistency, check and verify SQL Server Job status and so on.?  Experience in implementing SQL Server security and Object permissions like maintaining Database authentication modes, creation of users, configuring permissions and assigning roles to users.?  Created database objects including tables, indexes, constraints, stored procedures, views, triggers, and maintained relationships between tables.?  Refreshing, deploy and Migrate data through environments when requested by customer.?  Verify, maintain & troubleshoot database backups, integrity checks, and scheduled jobs.?  Tuned queries by following best practices and finding missing indexes, checking fragmentation level and re-index tables as necessary for efficient application access methods.?  Installed and configured, patch, test and upgrade SQL Server 2008, 2012, 2014.?  Database Maintenance for Prod Environment by Database Consistency Check, Index Maintenance, Update Statistics, Maintenance Cleanup, Notification and Alerting for Maintenance jobs, Analyze and Produce Report for Database Files Growth Rate.?  I am Experienced in the Agile methodology.?  Creating and Implementing Disaster Recovery and high availability plans such as; log shipping, SQL Server Mirroring and Replication as per the company requirement.?  Data partitioning, Error Handling through TRY-CATCH-THROW statement, Common Table Expression (CTE).?  Involved in database design and modeling and developed E-R Diagram using third party diagram like ERWIN and SQL Server Data Diagram.?  automating backups using maintenance plans and automated backup scripts. ?  Performance Tuning Jobs in Prod Server like Setup SQL Server Agent job that tracks slow running queries, Setup SQL Server Agent jobs that tracks locking, blocking and deadlocks, Setup SQL Server Agent jobs to send out reports of Server bottlenecks and Debug Slow running queries. Database Administrator Linus Engineering - October 2012 to January 2015 Responsibilities;?  creating Jobs, Alerts, SQL Mail Agent and scheduling SSIS Packages.?  Experience in implementing SQL Server security and Object permissions like maintaining Database authentication modes, creation of users, configuring permissions and assigning roles to users.?  Experience in Extract, Transform and Load (ETL) data from heterogeneous data Sources flat files, excel and MS Access to MS SQL Server databases using MS SQL Integration Service (SSIS), BCP and Bulk insert.?  Installed and configured SQL Server 2008, 2012 & 2014.?  Created and troubleshoot linked servers from SQL Server to SQL Server databases.?  review SQL Server Error log, check database consistency, check and verify SQL Server Job status.?  Configured and troubleshoot Log Shipping and Mirroring for high availability.?  Identify bottleneck and solve performance using SQL native tools and EDRA and Ignite third party tools.?  Used DBCC commands to check the database condition and rebuild/reorganize indexes.?  Run profiler for persistent performance issues and review and apply recommended Indexes and statistics using Tuning Advisory.?  Monitored index fragmentation and rebuild and reorganized as necessary Used.? ? Tools Used? Relational DBMS: Microsoft SQL Server? Operating System: Windows Server 2008, 2012 and 2014.? Third Party Tools: Idera, Erwin, Ignite, Service Manager, ERD and so on? Windows XP/7/8/10 Education Bachelor's in Enguneering Tech-Zone Engineering & Business College - Addis Ababa October 2012 to January 2015 Skills Microsoft SQL Server, Third Party Tools: Idera, Erwin, Ignite, Service Manager, ERD. Windows XP/7/8/10 (5 years)
Senior Database Administrator/Developer;Database Administrator/Developer:::Senior Database Administrator/Developer Senior Database Administrator/Developer Minot, ND - Work Experience Senior Database Administrator/Developer Quanteq Technology Services - June 2013 to December 2013 Developed and maintained underlying SQL and PL/SQL code.? ? Migrated and consolidated data from multiple sources using ETL tools and PL/SQL.? ? Integrated and worked alongside the Java development team.? ? Installed, configured and maintained relational database systems like Oracle, MySQL and MS SQL Server.? ? Worked closely with IT project managers, database programmers and web developers.? ? Communicated regularly with technical, applications, and operational staff, to ensure the database integrity and security.? ? Trained staff and clients on database management concepts.? ? Routinely backed up and tested the database backup to ensure it was valid.? ? Extended database functionality to support business needs.? ? Developed and maintained large data systems primarily at the RDBMS level? ? Debugged existing code to improve efficiencies.? ? Ensured proper documentation of programming code.? Key Achievement:? ? Successfully trained ten (10) employees in PL/SQL programming.? ? Successfully wrote the proposal for Oracle BI implementation for a client. Database Administrator/Developer Quanteq Technology Services - April 2008 to December 2011 Performed ETL process using SQL Loader, PL/SQL, Toad and SSIS.? ? Designed and maintained Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) for large database system.? ? Developed and maintained large data systems primarily at the RDBMS level.? ? Performed regular update and patch on database management system.? ? Carried out regular database back up and maintenance.? ? Developed and maintained existing PL/SQL code base.? ? Communicated regularly with the Java Development Team.? ? Developed technical manuals for users.? Key Achievement:? ? Successfully ensured that my company contract was renewed by the client by providing satisfactory 1st and 2nd level support to the client.? ? Successfully lead a team of 18 technical staff in a data capture field exercise.? ? ? Team Leader: Data Migration from MySQL to Oracle Database? ? Team Leader: Data Consolidation and Report Generation? ? Team Leader: Identity Management System? ? Team Leader: Conditional Cash Transfer System? ? Team Leader: Health Benefit System Education Masters of Science in Management Minot State University January 2014 to December 2014 Master of Science in Information Technology University of Greenwich - Greenwich, CT January 2012 to January 2013 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Calabar January 2001 to December 2006 Additional Information Technical Skills? ? Database: Oracle, MySql and MS SQL Server? ? Language: PL/SQL Java, PHP, HTML and Java Script? ? Operating System: Windows, Linux and Solaris? ? Third-party Software Crystal Report and Toad? ? Academic Award? ? Award for Outstanding Achievement in Computing and Information Systems Technology, University of Greenwich, London, January, 2013.
Database & Report Developer;Database & Report Developer:::Database & Report Developer Database & Report Developer Tampa, FL - Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database & Report Developer - 2012 to May 2013 - Maintaining and enhancing the Database based on given requirements.? - Creating stored producers, view, triggers, jobs, etc to help in efficient use and performance of the database.? - Performed Debugging on the Stored procedures for the requirement to handle the errors? - Used SSIS to create ETL packages to validate, extract, transform and load data to data warehouse and data marts? - Managed call center reporting data.? - Built daily and hourly reports to retrieve up to date information to show the number of sales vs calls? - Administrated the created Reports by assigning permission to the valid user for executing the reports. Database & Report Developer Sweetheart IceCream - 2011 to 2011 Education Masters in Management Information Systems University Of South Florida - Tampa, FL Bachelors in Management Information Systems / Decision Making University Of South Florida - Tampa, FL 2006 to 2011 Skills DATABASE (2 years), ETL (1 year), EXTRACT, TRANSFORM, AND LOAD (1 year), SALES (1 year), ACCESS (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Qualifications:?  Experienced in Database design, Coding, Unit testing and Implementation.?  Experience in creating Index, Views, complex Stored Procedures and appropriate user defined functions.?  Experience in creating and scheduling Jobs, Alerts, and SQL Mail Agent.?  Experience in developing, monitoring, extracting and transforming data using SSIS, Import Export Wizard, and Bulk Insert.?  Excellent in High Level Design of ETL DTS Packages & SSIS Packages for integrating data using OLE DB connection from heterogeneous sources like (Excel, CSV, Oracle, flat file, Text Format Data) by using multiple transformations provided by SSIS such as Data Conversion, Conditional Split, Bulk Insert, Merge and union all.?  Experienced in writing complex expressions in SSRS and Expert in fine tuning the reports. Created many Drill through and Drill Down accounting and management reports.?  Experience in report writing using Crystal and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and creating various types of reports like drill down, Parameterized, Cascading, Conditional, Table, Matrix, Chart and Sub Reports.?  Expert in creating Parameterized Reports.?  Works on day to day client issues, troubleshooting, and end to end testing.?  Experienced in balancing priorities for short-term and long-range goals.?  Knowledgeable in managerial accounting with an emphasis in how general purpose financial statements communicate information about the business corporation's performance and position for users external to management.?  Able to coordinate multiple projects and meet deadlines under pressure.?  Fluent in both English and Arabic.?  Expert in Microsoft office package, especially excel and access.?  Excellent computer skills.? ? Technical Skills:? ? Languages & Development?  HTML, XML?  Java Script?  Visual basic?  C#?  FrontPage?  word press?  MS Visio? ? SQL Server Tools?  Enterprise Manager, SQL Profiler?  Query Analyzer,?  SQL Server Management Studio?  DTS, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS? ? Operating Systems & Frameworks?  Windows XP, VISTA?  Windows Server 2003?  Windows Server 2005? ? ETl Tools?  SSRS?  SSAS?  SSIS? ? Projects Accomplished:? ? ? SSRS Projects?  Building complex SSRS reports for accounting, management, and billing purposes.?  Created and converted over 1000+ complex reports that were written in different languages and software into SSRS?  Improve the data & report performance by data tuning and rewriting all reports and queries.?  Responsible for managing daily and weekly reports and sending them to the seniors?  Provided MS SSRS 2008 training to clients in order for them to develop and schedule their own ad-hoc reports.? ? ? Dashboards:?  Analyzed & gathered dashboard requirements from senior management applying a mixture of system analysis & design?  Member of the development team who built the Sales & Ordering dashboards, using MSSQL 2005 tools and services such as SSRS & SSIS.?  Prepared a professional documentation and User Guide.? ? ? Data Integration:?  Developed SSIS packages to extract data from flat files provided by the vendor and load it to SQL database and table.?  Immigrated data from MS Access to SQL using DTS and SSIS?  Used conditional split to split data into multiple data destinations based on client request.? ? ? Website development:? Built and maintained the website using HTML and CSS techniques.? Helped in optimizing the website? ? ? Maintaining database: maintaining and enhancing the Database based on given requirements. Creating stored producers, view, triggers, jobs, etc to help in efficient use and performance of the database.
Jr. Database Administrator;Jr. Database administrator:::Jr. Database Administrator Jr. Database Administrator - Sholla Cooperation Silver Spring, MD - ? Strongly focused and knowledgeable Entry Level Database Administrator with a wide breadth of software installation and maintenance knowledge. Expert communicator of complex technological concepts to professional and non-professional audiences.? ? Core Qualifications? ? Exceptional expertise in SQL Server? ? Superior familiarity with Windows and Microsoft office products? ? Strong proficiency in relational database management? ? High Excellent knowledge of database installation and configuration principles? ? experience in database architecture Good communication and interpersonal skills Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Jr. Database Administrator Sholla Cooperation - Silver Spring, MD - June 2015 to Present Conducted SQL Server production database analysis on a regular basis.? ? Provided customer assistance and support pertaining to database system queries and complaints.? ? Installed administered and updated database tools and systems.? ? Attending meetings, taking targets and distributing them to the team leaders.? ? Monitoring and Troubleshooting SQL Server Performance using Query Tuning? ? Configuring Log Shipping, Mirroring, Replication.? ? Mirroring one of our critical database with zero latency/synchronized.? ? Implementation of backup and Recovery strategies.? ? Perform Full, Differential and Transaction Log Backup.? ? Created the Jobs and schedules for daily running.? ? Created Triggers and Store Procedures.? ? Tested and Deployed new database structures, such as tables, indexes and stores procedures? ? ? Participated in configuring always On with Availability group SQL Server 2012 via nodes on Windows Server Failover Cluster.? ? Participating in SQL Server Engineering to identify the root cause of the disaster.? ? Analyzing and resolving the case for slow performance or deadlock. Jr. Database administrator Colonial Parking LLC - Washington, DC - October 2013 to May 2015 Responsible data base management.? ? To work on the server.? ? To distribute the data to the operators.? ? Responsible for solving the database related queries.? ? To upload the data on the server.? ? Managing daily and weekly report.? ? ? To send the reports to the seniors.? ? Attending meetings, taking targets and distributing them to the team leaders.? ? Monitoring and Troubleshooting SQL Server Performance using Query Tuning? ? Resolving Blocking and Deadlocking Issues? ? Working on production Break fix issues? ? Installed SQL Server 2012 on machines? ? Scheduling Jobs and Alerts using DB Mail? ? Creating and scheduling maintenance routines. Education Bachelor Degree in Cyber Security University of Maryland University college 2015 to Present Skills Database (3 years), MS SQL SERVER (3 years), Replication. (2 years), SQL (3 years), SQL Server (3 years) Additional Information Skills? ? Database (RDBMS): SQL Server implementation and Maintenance.? ? Database Tools: SQL Profiler, SQL Agents, SQL Alerts, SQL Jobs? ? SQL Tools: Query Analyzer, profiler, query execution Plan, Counter.? ? High Availability: SQL Clustering, Always on Availability, Mirroring, Log shipping, Replication, Fail Over Clustering, Availability Group? ? Operating System: Windows Server 2012, Window Server 2008, Window Server 2003, Window XP, Vista, 7, 8 and Mac OS platform
Database Developer, Database Analyst, Application Support:::Database Developer, Database Analyst, Application Support Herndon, VA - Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Developer, Database Analyst, Application Support VARIOUS COMPANIES AND LOCATIONS - VA - April 2003 to Present - Over 12 years of IT experience in Application/Database Analysis, Designing, Data modeling (Logical and Physical), Developing, Mapping, ETL Batch scripting/scheduling/monitoring, Testing, Implementation, Documentation, Customizing and maintenance of software applications. ? - Excellent communication skills (both verbal and written) and strong in developing and supporting database applications using Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, SQL, PL/SQL, AWS, MS Office, UNIX, Shell Scripting, Data warehousing and ETL process, Batch jobs scripting/scheduling/monitoring. ? - Extensive technical experience in performing reverse Engineering and working in larger database environments, Data Analysis and Data Correction, Performance Tuning, Database Upgrades/Migration and Planning Backup & Recovery Strategies, optimization, Software Configuration Management, Batch Processing and Support Education B.tech in Computer Science and Engineering August 1989 to June 1993
Oracle Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator - Egen Solutions Inc OH - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Egen Solutions Inc - Naperville, IL - January 2015 to Present  Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris and Windows environments.?  Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.?  Upgraded the RAC and standalone databases from 10g (10.2.0.4 and 10.2.0.5) to 11g (11.2.0.2, 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.4) and 11g to 12c.?  Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog databases and registering target Databases with the Catalog.?  Responsible for Backup and recovery of the databases using RMAN Tool (Recovery Manager) , and Database Flashback using GRP ( Guaranteed Restore Point)?  Building Oracle Standby databases, both Active Dataguard for real-time replication and normal Dataguard for disaster recovery also referred as BCP clone purposes.?  Worked on Disaster Recovery by converting physical standby databases to SNAPSHOT standby database and opened in the read/write.?  Implemented Dataguard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.?  Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM.?  Installed Goldengate version 11 and version 12 with latest patches applied on DBFS filesystem and ACFS filesystem, also working testing new OGG 12.2 new features available.?  Implemented user level security, object level security, dataencryption, data masking, and Fine Grain auditing using DBMS_FGA package.?  Installation of 12c OEM and customize it to our needs.?  Installing Oracle Golden gate on RHEL and setup table level replication as well as DDL replication too.?  Evaluated Oracle 11gR2 Golden Gate for future purposes that is for reducing the complexity involved in Oracle Streams.?  Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication and monitored them using Grid Control.?  Automated the Data Replication process using Materialized Views for reporting databases.?  Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.?  Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g/11g environments.?  Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.?  Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.?  Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.?  Alert management, Created and setup alerts to send notification to Users from application wherever necessary.?  Created and troubleshoot DB Link issues in Oracle for communicating with external databases.?  Used Utilities like Explain Plan, SQL*Trace, TKPROF and Statspack for SQL Tuning Purpose.?  Worked on Re-Organizing the tables to convert from non-partitioned to partitioned tables using Online Re-definition (with minimal impact to live system) , CTAS(create table as select ) , exp/imp and creating the table with new DDL and direct insert sql.?  Perform day to day activities like backup-restore, space management, monitoring database alerts, performance tuning.?  Proficient in troubleshooting Node Eviction in Oracle RAC Environment?  Applied PSU patches and other database related patches.?  Have a good experience in administering Oracle Clusterware components.?  Configured ASM and handled issues and suggested feasible workarounds for ASM Metadata corruption and Configured user log on load balancing and failover on RAC database.?  Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.?  Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using OracleData Guard forOracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5RAC databases.?  Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.?  Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager). Database Administrator CenturyLink Inc - Monroe, LA - March 2012 to December 2014 Environment: Oracle /11g/10g/ Linux, Solaris, SQL Developer, PL/SQL, Shell scripting (Bourne), OEM, Statspack, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, DataPump.? ?  Installation of oracle 11g databases in production, development and test environments depending on project requirements.?  Enforcing and managing Security and Audit requirement compliance.?  Performance tuning by Fine Tuning Initialization parameters, I/O, Memory, storage and Operating System kernel parameters, Oracle SQL, optimizer, and query plan, optimize queries and performing PL/SQL code profiling.?  Tracing Blocking / Locking and Long Running sessions, Wait Interface.?  Capacity Planning as per Data growth and work-load by working closely with other decision making Teams such as Development, Business / Clients.?  Apply CPU, RDBMS patches to RAC Databases as per the requirement.?  Supporting OS Patching activity for all RAC Servers.?  Create databases for development, testing and production (including RAC databases and NON- RAC databases).?  Implementing 11g Data guard with one physical database. Used OEM Grid Control Diagnostic and tuning packs to tune application and SQL queries.?  24*7 production support for day to day operations and On Call responsibilities.?  Database structure changes, table/index sizing, SGA sizing, SQL, I/O and Application tuning, transaction monitoring, detecting lock contentions, tuning sort operations.?  Timely Reorganization of tables and rebuilt of indexes to improve the performance of the SQL queries as part of scheduled maintenance window. Developing online RMAN backup scripts to automate backup procedures.?  Clone RAC databases with various strategies like Cold/Hot/Logical Refresh and RMAN Backup.?  On RAC systems did CRS upgrade, ASM upgrade, DB Upgrade and OEM Agent Upgrade.?  Cloning from cluster database to Normal databases?  Handled all standard database administrative tasks, such as: proactive performance tuning and monitoring, trouble-shooting, back-up and recovery.?  Doing the regular activities like monitoring the alert logs, redo log status, listener. Log and checking the space for normal segments, rollback segments and tablespaces?  Making structural changes to the databases.?  Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users?  Managed Database MaintenanceActivities to achieve optimum database uptime.?  Written SQL scripts to create database objects like tables, views and sequences. Skills cloning (5 years), Database (5 years), databases (5 years), maintenance (5 years), OEM (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS? ?  Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like Tablespace usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.? * Good knowledge of v$ and gv$ performance views and command line skills to identify information about sessions, wait events, system performance.?  Extensive experience designing and implementing backup and recovery strategy for databases using Recovery Manager (RMAN), traditional Export/ Import, Export/Import Datapump as well as conventional Hot/Cold Backups.?  Worked extensively on Cloning /Duplicate of databases using RMAN.?  Migrated databases from Non-ASM file system to ASM file system using RMAN.?  Upgrading and Migration of Oracle database to higher version and other platforms using manual method and traditional Export/Import, datapump& Transportable Tablespace (TTS).?  Experience in coding SQL, PL/SQL package, function, stored procedure, triggers, and Materialized view for Oracle database.?  Hands on experience with logical backups, Hot/Cold backups, Recovery, and cloning of databases using (RMAN) Recovery Manager, SQL-Backtrack, VERITAS Net Backup.? Worked on the modeling of data performing the following major steps: develop logical models, relational models, general model and the save design?  Disk Space Management involving managing archives, space allocation to various tablespaces and also capacity planning for new applications.?  Experience include Installation, Configuration , Space Management, System maintenance, patching, data replication, Database security, Performance Monitoring, , Backup and Recovery and also includes RAC, ASM, Data Guard, Golden Gate, Data Pump and grid control.?  Supported as Production and development DBA on OLTP, Data warehouse environment. Involved in Change/Release/Patch management and off-shore co-ordination, Product development, data center Migration and Upgrade. Administration including design, deploy, tune, trouble-shoot. Efficient to manage 50+DB.?  RAC Installation and Admin on UNIX platform. Load balancing. Manage fail-over. Backup CRS files. Tune cache fusion. Resource utilization on Nodes.?  Managed ASM, create and prepare disk for ASM. Create ASM instance. Add/remove disk. Manage space on disk groups. Expertise on asmcmd commandline. Handle 10TB database on ASM.?  PL/SQL objects creation. Create trigger/ function/ stored procedure/ packages. Tune and trouble-shooting PL/SQL codes. Write database Monitoring PL/SQL objects. Create Materialized view.?  Experience in Golden Gate to support data replication monitoring, tuning and capacity planning. Experience in bi-directional and broadcast replication from source to target databases using Golden Gate 9.5 and Golden Gate 10.0.?  Applying Patches, Critical Patch Update/Patch Set update and One-off Patches using OPatch. Experience in patching RAC databases in rolling fashion to maintain high availability.?  Good in command line skills to identify information about sessions, wait events, system performance etc?  Involved in tuning applications for optimal response time using SQL /Optimizer Trace at various levels and events, Explain Plan, TKprof, Oradebug and also identifyiCollecting performance statistics using Statspack/AWR and ADDM. Experience in Monitoring and Tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.?  Extensive experience in designing Logical and Physical data models for new developments using ERwin modeler.?  Experience in using 11g features Flash-Back Recovery, Data Pump, AWR, ASM, ADDM, ASH, Recycle Bin, FLASHBACK and ADVANCED COMPRESSRION and ENCRYPTION (AES), 11g and 12c Grid Monitoring.?  Implemented LINUX HUGE PAGES on OEL 5.5 and Redhat Linux 6.x for Clustered Environmentsng the poor SQL's, histograms, row chaining & row migrations and tune accordingly.?  Exposure to SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Profiles, SQL Monitoring, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Baselines and SQLTXTRACT tools and utilities.?  Implemented various Partition techniques to achieve availability, performance and manageability of large tables and indexes?  Expertise in Configuring RMAN with Catalog /Nocatalog and worked on Point-In-Time Recovery and flashback.?  Plugging the tablespace between different platforms using Cross platform transportable tablespace Utility.?  Collecting performance statistics using Statspack/AWR (Automatic Workload Repository) and ADDM (Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor).?  Used TKPROF utility and Explain Plan for tuning SQL queries.?  Experience in regular DBA activities such as Upgrades, Patches, TAR support, Cloning, Backups and Recovery Manager, Performance Tuning, Capacity Planning and documentation?  Memory tuning by using ASMM (Automatic shared Memory Management). Sort area size, Buffer cache, Shared pool size, Different pools like Recycle pool, Keep pool.?  Implemented initial Data Load, Batch/Online replication, Security in Golden Gate using TDE using AES128 and Advanced Compression using ZLIB algorithm to minimize CPU consumption?  Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance, User Management, Tablespace management, maintenance of Oracle Database..?  Installing Oracle patches, Migration of database across releases.?  Experience in Monitoring and Tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.?  Expertise in loading data from flat files using external tables, SQL* Loader.?  Experience with SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Scripting.?  Hands on experience in tuning mappings, identifying and resolving performance bottlenecks in various levels like sources, targets, mappings, and sessions.?  Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills? ? TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES? ? Databases: Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c? Database Tools: SQL*Plus, Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Log miner, Statspack/AWR, Shareplex, Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Oracle Migration Workbench, ERwin, QDesigner, Remedy? Operating Systems: MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX? Hardware: Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage, Sun Enterprise Servers [?] Sun StorEdge 6320, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers, Compaq Servers [?] HP/UX-9000, Red Hat Linux 6.2
:Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator - ECONOMIC SYSTEMS Inc Laurel, MD - A proactive and goal-oriented Oracle DBA with six (6) + years of experience, looking for an ideal environment to demonstrate my technical and professional knowledge. I am a self-starter and team player with the mindset of accomplishing goals way ahead of schedule. I can work under supervision or self-guidance. I like to attend to details while respecting deadlines. I am a fast learner and an out-of-the-box thinker who is so unlimited in deliverables. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator ECONOMIC SYSTEMS Inc - Falls Church, VA - April 2016 to Present Providing upscale corporate IT support for a project called "FEDHR", through our in-house-built application,? Fedhr-Navigator CP.? My responsibilities range from, but are not limited to disaster recovery, performance analysis and tuning, index maintenance, and monitoring of data.?  Develop policies and procedures for ensuring the security and integrity of the database(s).?  Evaluates requirements and recommends available DMBS products.?  Database and software life-cycle activities to ensure highest level of system performance and availability?  Proactive database monitoring and response, Performance tuning, Soft-ware installations and configurations, Schema refresh, Periodic schema comparison and merger, Database creation and database storage definition,?  User creation and database access control, Database backup and disaster recovery, Database migration, Database quarterly patch application.? ? *In the areas of proactive database monitoring, I use Oracle Enterprise Manager, Toad, SQL*Developer, as well as SQL*PLUS command-line.? *In the areas of performance tuning, I have conveniently been using AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, Statspack ,Sql-optimizer, Sql-analyzer for diagnostics and tuning.? *Upon request, I have installed and configured Oracle 10g,11g and 12c software, SQL*Developer, PuTTy, WinScp, Oracle Application Express (APEX).? *I make sure upon request that, all Schemas be refreshed with the most up-to-date dump-file (baseline) from production to keep the workflow going.? *On a regular, post any Schema refresh, I made sure that, I compare the main Schema with the newly refreshed one.? *Used Dbca to create new servers and made sure all required primary storage constructs, ei; Datafiles, tablespace(s), mirrored control file, and redo-log files are created or configured for greater availability and reliability.? ? *Perform user access control on application level using APEX and DB level, using Slq*plus and Toad utilities? *Create users upon request, grant them access to the database, make data available to them and begin to monitor their activities on the system.? *Configured backup and disaster recovery, using Rman, DataPump, Crontab, and have recovered databases from external backups as well.? *Performed in-place and out-of-place (Cross platform) migration, using DataPump utility, and an out-of-place migration using WinScp and SFTP.? *Apply the required quarterly Patchset Updates, (PSU or CPU) for bug and security fixes as per Oracle recommendation. Oracle Database Administrator CVS - December 2015 to April 2016 Software Installation? Database creation, using DBCA and Scripts? Database proactive monitoring and response, using OEM and Sql*plus? Database performance Tuning (System/Application),using Tuning advisors, AWR, ADDM, Explain plan etc.? Database backup and disaster recovery, including Dataguard as part of DR scheme, using RMAN, DataPump.? Definition of Primary database storage constructs,(Tables, Indexes, Views, Tablespace, Packages etc.)? Database cloning, using RMAN? User creation and Security administration Oracle Database Administrator Hertz Car - February 2014 to December 2015 Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g and 11gR2 on Linux and also Upgraded from Oracle 10g.11g, and from 11g to 12c.? Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export cal backup of database.? Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU),One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".? Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning,using tuning utilities like STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, distribution of disk I/O.? Expertise in PL/SQL, SQL and UNIX Shell Scripting (Implemented UNIX Scripts using CRONJOB for Day-to-Day activities and Windows Task Scheduler)? Supported Security User Management, Privileges, Roles, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication? Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration? Database monitoring and performance tuning using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager)? Index creation and management for optimization of DB Processes? Used Grid Control extensively and set up Rules for alert notification and schedule RMAN backups with failure notification.? Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, Indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics for the same.? Performance tuning and diagnosing DBMS and individual Production databases, organized various migration review meetings with the application team to discuss the migration strategy based on their requirements. Performed policies on data confidentiality, integrity, availability, and auditability, based on Access controls for Access to Data at the database level.? Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning oracle contention and monitored production database using Automatic? Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).? Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle? 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems. Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.? Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10g RAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.? Supported & maintained the Production/Development databases on various servers? Extensively worked on setting up auditing in many databases we supported? Managing Database Structure, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Rollback Segments, Undo Segments, and Constraints.? Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import. Creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.? Used hints for SQL tuning and optimization? Performed Explain Plan analysis for Query Optimization and SQL tuning Oracle Database Administrator AUTO ZONE Inc - Fairfax, VA - March 2012 to January 2014 Performed monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.? Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7? Performed housekeeping tasks like checking log and trace files.? Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control and TOAD, Refresh, schema using DataPump, created the databases, tablespaces, tables, indexes, privileges and user logins.? Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies, and have even recovered from external backups.? Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN and DataPump utilities.? Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.? Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.? Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.? Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.? Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 11g environments.? Proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQLTrace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.? Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).? Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.? Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on Sun Solaris platform.? Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases..? Utilized TOAD for database management. Oracle Database Administrator HSBC - Charlotte, NC - February 2011 to March 2012 Install oracle database software 10.2.0.1 and 11.2.0.1.0 using oracle universal installer on development, test and production server for their claim, policy and online applications in IBM AIX 5.3 environment.? Install OEM grid control that includes oracle agent, management repository and management service on VMware Red Hat Linux virtual machine. Install agents on various AIX database servers.? Upgrade software and databases from 9.2.0.1 to 9.2.0.6, 10.2.0.1 to 10.2.0.3, 9.2.0.6 to 10.2.0.3 and 10.2.0.3 to 11.1.0.6.0 on development; test and production databases on AIX database servers.? Apply patch set to upgrade software and use database upgrade assistant, export/ import and manual scripts to upgrade databases.? Migration of full 9.2.0.6 databases, schemas those are on Linux environment into AIX, 10.2.0.3 database environment using export/import and data pump utility.? Created development, test and production databases using database configuration assistant- DBCA, manual scripts and Sql*plus using Automatic storage management- ASM.? Database performance tuning using AWR, ADDM, ASH, Sql tuning advisor, explain plan,statistics, blocking sessions, STATSPACK, TKPROF, sql query restructure and sql trace.? Scheduled Cronjob for daily night hot/online backup of production databases on tape using RMAN scripts.? Refresh or restore development, test and reporting databases from production database backup using RMAN scripts and Data pump utility.? Schedule a Cronjob and create lots of shell script in Unix environment like backup and restore of databases, update statistics, export and import of tables, log file maintenance, cleanup archive logs, startup and shutdown databases, email logs and alert to users, mount point space check, tablespace size check and business related activity like automatic bill payment, check generation, bill generation and many more. Education Associates in OCA Everest College - McLean, VA 2007 to 2010 B.A in History in History University Buea 2003
Database Developer;Data Analyst;Database Developer;Database Developer;Database Developer;Database Developer:::Database Developer Database Developer Redmond, WA - Broad experience using SQL Server stored procedures, views and Integration Services for ETL/ELT from databases, Excel workbooks and flat files to support high level corporate reporting, report automation and data warehousing. Implemented Excel workbooks to present results for analysis and to gather and incorporate user adjustments for corporate forecast and inventory tracking. Other experience includes developing complex reports, consolidating databases, converting legacy databases, and supporting and enhancing legacy applications. Proven ability to respond to changing environments and to quickly learn and successfully apply new concepts and ideas. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Developer Murphy & Associates - Redmond, WA - July 2016 to November 2016 Return engagements with Microsoft GSC (nee SMSG, see 7/09 - 7/15 below) to implement Weekly Forecast enhancements. Project scope was initially limited to metadata and workbook changes required to support fiscal year roll; as the ramifications of a recent corporate reorg became clearer, the project was extended to include:?  Some rebranding (Weekly Forecast to Monthly Outlook, SMSG to GSMO etc.).?  Change the reporting and submission granularity from monthly (three months) to quarterly.?  Implement a new data source for prior year data.?  Add support for future quarter forecast.?  During the second return engagement added forecasting for Cloud products to Monthly Outlook.?  Updated application documentation. Data Analyst Allyis / Microsoft - Redmond, WA - February 2016 to May 2016 Supported onboarding of new publishers and offerings to Azure Data Market.?  Pulled COSMOS Azure Data Market usage data (using Scope scripts) and related Azure based database data (using SSIS) for monthly Excel based reporting utilizing Power Query and PowerPivot.?  Used formulas and metadata to simplify monthly reporting processes and minimize editing required to run ~15 monthly reports (Scope scripts, SSIS packages, stored procedures, SQL queries embedded in Excel).?  Provided transactional, parameterized T-SQL scripts to perform production database modifications.?  Reporting to identify fraud / abuse of free offers.?  Satisfied ad hoc requests for information on Azure Data Market publishers, offerings, subscribers and/or usage. Database Developer Two Degrees / Microsoft - Redmond, WA - July 2009 to July 2015 Development of tools and financial reports for worldwide SMSG, automating what had been manual processes (stored procedures, views, SSIS, Excel, VBA).?  Weekly Forecast application. Developed a single workbook replacement for manual processes that involved consolidation of ~90 separate workbooks (one per Subregion). ELT from MSSales and external files using SSIS, stored procedures and views using configurable metadata defining criteria and content; workbook VBA and stored procedures to support passing data to / from the database (reports for field analysis and write back of Forecast adjustments to database). Additional workbooks for corporate level adjustments and consolidation for reporting to upper (VP level) management. Implemented user based security on data accessed from Excel.?  Channel Reserve application. Similar ELT / Excel solution implemented to support inventory reporting and field inventory adjustment (database write back) for FPP, system builder, Surface and Xbox products using MSSales data.? ? Database Developer ~~~~~~~~~~) 7/09 - 7/15 Two Degrees / Microsoft Redmond, WA? ?  Quarterly Travel Pack. Automated ~90 reports with ELT from MSSales, Mercury, MSPeople, Excel workbooks and flat files. Metadata driven extract and report criteria and time awareness. Excel VBA and metadata to support "values only" consolidation of 150+ Travel Pack reports into single Excel workbook supporting easy navigation and filtering of reports, as well as user based security to control access to workbook. The Travel Pack was critical in supporting quarterly and mid-year field reviews.?  All tools configurable via metadata for automation and ease of change and maintenance, including SQL agent job prerequisites, extract and transformation criteria, and time sense.?  Documented applications built. Database Developer Ramp / Microsoft - Redmond, WA - September 2008 to March 2009 Channel Incentives Rebates. Responsible for database design and ELT processes from MSSales and Mercury databases using views, stored procedures and SSIS for Excel based reporting used for annual budgeting and quarterly forecast activities as well as monthly actual reporting of Channel Incentives Rebates. Goal was to standardize and automate what was done manually with hundreds of Excel worksheets across multiple workbooks.?  Performed analysis of existing solution and worked with the business to determine requirements.?  Complex and changing filter criteria defining data subsets for 21 Channel Incentives programs implemented as table-driven dynamic code for ease of maintenance.?  SQL Agent job and stored procedures to detect user changes to values and trigger update of reporting tables.?  Complex views to join Budget, Actual, and Forecast source data at different levels of granularity and detail.?  Produced design and process documentation. Database Developer CompuCom (Excell) / Microsoft - Issaquah, WA - May 2007 to May 2008 Data Acquisition and Integration from seven regional implementations of Microsoft's customer support incident tracking system (Clarify) for the Microsoft Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW). Utilized metadata driven ETL tool (METaL) and pre-release SQL Server 2008 (Katmai) features including MERGE and Change Data Capture.?  Participated in design and definition of integration processing framework.?  Wrote Technical Design documents from Functional Specification documents, held document and code reviews.?  Developed generalized procedures for metadata driven ETL tool to handle proper translation of non-Unicode DBCS to Unicode and to support batching of MERGE operations.?  Significant and sometimes complex transformation involved in integration into EDW. Database Developer Endeavor Consulting - Bellevue, WA - August 2006 to April 2007 Served as member of Professional Services team and participated in multiple development projects for various clients.?  Design and development of back end processes to support a suite of management reports, including ETL processes from Excel spreadsheets, Access databases, and flat files, SQL Agent jobs to refresh data, and stored procedures to retrieve data for reports.?  Reporting including Reporting Services and Excel spreadsheets refreshed via VBA macros to retrieve and format database data.?  Query performance analysis and tuning via plan analysis and index implementation.?  Creation of Performance Monitor and SQL alerts.?  Project and application documentation. Education Bachelor of Arts in history Washington State University Skills databases (1 year), Excel (7 years), MS SQL SERVER (1 year), SQL (8 years), SQL Server (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/dancrouter Additional Information Broad experience using SQL Server stored procedures, views and Integration Services for ETL/ELT from databases, Excel workbooks and flat files to support high level corporate reporting, report automation and data warehousing. Implemented Excel workbooks to present results for analysis and to gather and incorporate user adjustments for corporate forecast and inventory tracking. Other experience includes developing complex reports, consolidating databases, converting legacy databases, and supporting and enhancing legacy applications. Proven ability to respond to changing environments and to quickly learn and successfully apply new concepts and ideas.? ? Computer Skills? Operating Systems: Windows 2.0 through Windows Server 2012 R2; MS-DOS; VP/CSS; VM/CMS; MVS/TSO? Languages: T-SQL; Command Files; Excel VBA; VBScript; PowerShell; NOMAD? Relational Databases: SQL Server 6.5 - 2016; NOMAD; SQL/DS; DB2
Senior SQL Database Administrator;SQL Database Administrator:::Senior SQL Database Administrator Senior SQL Database Administrator - Marie Stopes International (MSI) Alexandria, VA - I have 8 years of Professional database administrator (DBA) experience, which includes database administration, design,? strategy planning, and implementation of various database solutions. My key accomplishments as a DBA are the following:? ?  Carried out requirements specification, database design, user training and support.?  Solid experience in software development life cycle (SDLC).?  Installed and configured SQL Server.?  Proficient in T-SQL.?  Implemented database security and user administration policies.?  Developed backup and recovery strategies.?  Implemented database backup, restore and recovery strategies.?  Led and executed database upgrade and migration projects.?  Created, monitored and maintained automated tasks with jobs and alerts.?  Configured and administered High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) Techniques: Replication, Log? shipping, Mirroring, Failover Clustering and Always on Availability Groups.?  Experienced in SQL Performance Twinning tools(Query Optimization, SQL profiler, Database engine advisor, DMVs,? system stored procedures, DBCC, Activity Monitor, SQL log, Performance Monitor, Event Viewer, Execution Plan,? and other third party performance monitoring Tools like Idera diagnostic manager and Spotlight.?  Implemented SSIS and SSRS solutions.?  Experienced in Partitioning, Encryption, policy based management and linked server.?  Served as a technical project lead and supporting technical implementation.?  Worked in a demanding production support environment managing large volumes of business critical data. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior SQL Database Administrator Marie Stopes International (MSI) - February 2014 to Present  Documented user requirement specification for PrimeCare electronic health record, mhealth for pregnant women and health professionals and eVoucher systems.?  Developed database schema for PrimeCare electronic health record, mhealth for pregnant women and health professionals and eVoucher systems.?  Provided user training, mentoring and support for in-house applications.?  Installed, configured and administered production, test and development SQL server 2005/2008/2012/2014/2016. ?  Installed service packs, security patches & hot fixes.?  Created databases and database objects such as tables, stored procedures, triggers, indices and others based on requirements from the development team by using T-SQL and SSMS GUI. ?  Implemented database security and management policy (experienced in user, login, role and privilege administrations through Data control languages-GRANT, DENY and REVOKE).?  Revised backup and restore strategy through change management and conducted periodic testing of the strategy.?  Executed several version, edition and BI (SSIS and SSRS) migration projects.?  Created and monitored maintenance plans and jobs for database backup, check database integrity, shrink database, reorganize index, rebuild index, update statistics and maintenance and history clean up.?  Configured and administered failover clustering and Always-On Availability Groups.?  Performed and oversaw day-to-day database performance through SQL server error logs, integrity checks, optimizations, dynamic management views (DMVs) and dynamic management functions (DMFs).?  Solved user reported problems and problems identified through database performance monitoring like:? o Resource bottleneck related problems (CPU, Memory, Network, I/O throughput, storage related issues that come from TempDB and Transaction Log Management).? o A slow-running user query problems that include wrong statistics, missing indexes and unused indexes, bad application and schema design, deadlocks and blocking.?  Implemented data partitioning and error handling through try-catch-throw statements and common table expression (CTE).?  Provided 24/7 Production database support (on-call and on-site) by using escalation matrix. ?  Proficient on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).?  Performed source data analysis and mappings for data extraction.?  Carried out ETL operations through SSIS Packages to load Data from various sources to user databases/tables.?  Developed documentation for databases, database applications, third-party tools and database infrastructure. SQL Database Administrator Tulane University/Tulane International - June 2010 to January 2014  Performed requirements gathering, specification, analysis, user interfaces and custom reports design for SmartCare electronic health record, electronic health management information system, Health Professionals license management system and community health mobile application systems.?  Solid experience in software development life cycle (SDLC).?  Performed database requirement analysis and design (database schema and data modeling). ?  Carried out database infrastructure analysis related with hardware, performance, security, archival, maintenance, recovery and location requirements.?  Installed and configured production, test and development servers.?  Executed preparation and implementation plans for technical tests and supported UAT and SAT Sessions.?  Proficient in T-SQL and SSMS GUI.?  Implemented MS SQL Server security policies and granted different permissions by using grant, deny and revoke commands based on the principle of least privilege. ?  Developed data use, dissemination and security policy guideline for production, development and test environments. ?  Implemented, monitored and executed backup, restore and recovery tasks. ?  Automated database activities by using maintenance plans and jobs. ?  Migrated databases and other database objects from SQL server 2005 to 2012.?  Configured and administered failover clustering and Always-On availability groups.?  Performed periodic database monitoring and performance tuning by using error logs and even log, task manager and resource monitor, windows performance monitor (perfmon), profiler and server side traces, built in performance reports in ssms, dynamic management views (dmvs), system stored procedures (t-sql): sp_who , sp_lock, sp_spaceused, database engine tuning advisor and execution plans. ?  Applied patches and service packs to keep the servers and databases at current patch level.?  Resolved user reported issues and issues identified through database performance monitoring and tuning tools.?  Developed documentation for database performance status and recommendation for future upgrading. Skills MS SQL Server (4 years), SQL (7 years), SQL server (4 years), SQL server 2005 (4 years), T-SQL (4 years), DBCC, SDLC, error logs and even log, task manager and resource monitor, windows performance monitor (perfmon), profiler and server side traces, built in performance reports in ssms, dynamic management views (dmvs), system stored procedures (t-sql), sp_who, sp_lock, sp_spaceused, database engine tuning advisor and execution plans Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Database Administrator Additional Information Technical Skills Personal Skills? - Windows Server [?] - Attention to detail? - Microsoft SQL Server [?] - Good analytical skills? - Redgate? - Goals orientated? - T-SQL? - Data Warehouse tools - Able to effectively communicate technical data? - Performance Tuning to non-technical colleagues? - Disaster Recovery? - Data Quality Assurance - Ability to quickly understand complex problems? - Project Cycle Management and devise effective solutions.
Senior database administrator;Senior database administrator;Senior database administrator;Senior database administrator;DB2 database administrator:::Senior database administrator Senior database administrator - Anthem Health Care, Indianapolis Indianapolis, IN - * A passion driven career oriented professional Database administrator, with technical expertise primarily focused on DB2 LUW having been carried out wide range of activities including installations, Backup recovery, Administration, Troubleshooting, maintenance, Migrations and Performance tuning as a DBA with career spanning of 8years.? * Experienced in Production Support of very large databases running on Various applications.? * Build of DB2 UDB databases for various Data Marts Like ETL, BI and Documentum.? * Expertise in Installing different versions of DB2 on Unix, Linux and Windows,? * Reducing high watermark of table space and table space conversions regular to large.? * Configuring and Managing database backups offline and online to TSM.? * Perform redirected restores from production to non-production landscapes.? * Performed Fix Pack Installations? * Actively involved in periodical disaster recovery drills HADC? * Actively Involved in Data center maintenance (T1 & T3) also Midrange maintenance activities.? * Good Knowledge on Q-Replication.? * Enabled DB2 Deep compression for identified tables on DB2 UDB V9.7 databases.? * Optimized Query performance by creating indexes using Design Advisor.? * Performed Performance tuning tasks like altering buffer pools, modifying different configuration parameters as per the Application standards/recommendations, Enabling STMM, dealing with lock wait situations.? * Good Knowledge on using Performance expert (DB2 PE) tool? * DB2 data movement utilities -Export, Import, Load and db2move.? * Troubleshooting database issues best using db2diag, db2pd, db2top, db2dart, admin views, functions, sys process, Snapshot monitors and Event monitors.? * DB2 Maintenance Utilities - Reorgchk, REORG, Runstats.? * HADR set up, administration and maintenance.? * Provided 24*7 Support and On-call responsibility in rotation.? * Good Knowledge on rolling back the deleted data using transaction ids.? * Analyzing the query performance using Explain Plan? * Creating users granting appropriate privileges and maintaining security.? * Build of database for Various Application use.? * Creating Database objects and Granting access to the users.? * Performing Backups on user requests scheduling the backups as required.? * Good Knowledge in analyzing sessions running against database and dealing with locking issues.? * Movement of DDL's from Development to Test & Production Environment.? * Grooming the data to improve performance of the Database.? * Good Team player, Ability to fulfill the requirements efficiently in time and learn things quickly. Open to recent technologies that come across my work line.? * Self -motivated. Having excellent interpersonal, verbal and written communication skills. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Work Experience Senior database administrator Anthem Health Care, Indianapolis - September 2016 to Present Environment: DB2 UDB V9.1, v9.5 & v9.7,v10.1 ,v10.5 OS - Linux & Windows? ? Responsibilities:? * Monitor the use of the database to identify opportunities for performance improvements.? * Installed, Upgrade and configured DB2 v10.1 and DB210.5 on Linux, AIX and Windows.? * 24/7 On call Production support.? * Recommend and maintain standards for monitoring and event management to be used in production databases.? * Monitor/Setup and manage Q-Replication procedures.? * Performing the setup, manage, troubleshoot with DB2 LUW High Availability and Disaster Recovery (HADR) procedures.? * Maintain and facilitate standard backup procedures, retention plans, and restore testing.? * Assist with data migration between systems including regular data refreshes and making production data anonymous for use in testing environments? * Assist in tuning SQL in stored procedures.? * Perform testing and production builds involving data changes and stored procedure building while following established change management procedures? * Assume all DBA duties in testing and development environments, maintaining design and data consistency throughout? * Maintain standard procedural documentation related to all aspects of operating the database platforms.? * Working knowledge of OPM - Optim Performance Manager / DB2 Performance Expert.? * Document known errors or workarounds in the shared Knowledge Base.? * Performance tuning by monitoring, taking snapshots? * Expertise in running REORGCHK, REORG and RUNSTATS for better performance of the database? * Installed DB2 V10.5 Fix Pack 7 on AIX, Sun Solaris andZLinux Servers? * Worked on HADR environment? * Table space management - Adding, dropping, extending, reducing and resizing table space containers? * Backup & Recovery of Database, Online database backup, archived log files and Offline? * Granting / revoking various authorizations to different Users/Groups? * Implemented DB2 Security, Locking and Concurrency Control? * Strong collaboration, team building, interpersonal, communication skills with proficiency at grasping new technical concepts quickly & utilizing the same in a productive manner. Senior database administrator JPMorgan Chase - New York, NY - November 2015 to August 2016 Environment: DB2 UDB V9.1, v9.5 & v9.7,v10.1 ,v10.5 OS - Linux & Windows? ? As Database Administrator? * DB2 Installations on Linux & AIX operating system.? * Refreshing Production data to Dev and Test env.? * Housekeeping activities: purging data,? * Performing database run stats, reorgchk and Reorg manually whenever needed.? * Movement of data using export, import, and load utilities.? * Conversion of regular to large tablespace. Reducing high watermark of tablespace.? * Configuring Databases in PE for monitoring.? * Troubleshoot Apply and capture failure issues in replication.? * Setting up replication between the tables? * Enable and activating the ASN Subscription tables and analyzing issues from Apply and Capture log files.? * Troubleshoot the issues and diag notification log errors as and when required.? * Maintaining Database security, Managing Database user privileges.? * Redirected restore of databases with cross node recovery functioning.? * Tsm client configuration for database backups and archive logs.? * Fixpack Installations on various db2 versions.? * Migrating the databases to new versions? * Performance tuning areas altering buffer pools, parameter changes.? * Tuning of long running queries using tools like db2advis, db2explain etc.? * Dealing with lock-wait situations.? * Creating Netezza databases in all Prod, Test and Development Environments.? * Analyzing the query performance and sessions running against the database.? * Taking part in regular team meetings to discuss on the work status the work deadlines.? * 24*7 Production support for DB2 UDB databases Senior database administrator AIG - Jersey City, NJ - July 2013 to October 2015 Environment: DB2 UDB V9.1, v9.5 & v9.7,v10.1 ,v10.5 OS - Linux & Windows? ? Responsibilities:? * Administration DB2 V9.7 databases on LUW platform.? * Installed and configured DB2 v8, v9, V9.5, V.9.7on Linux, AIX and Windows.? * Database creation and designing.? * Fix pack installation.? * Performance Tuning? * Backup and Recovery and Problem Solving.? * Database migration? * Working and troubleshooting on day-to-day problems via opening and closing tickets.? * Explain and Snapshots, Buffer pools performance optimization, SQL performance evaluation, analysis, and optimization.? * Federation of DB2 databases across the environments.? * Developing the database codes, scripts for databases? * Deploying store procedures for application users.? * Based on the security level granting privileges to users.? * Involved in production/development setup, configuration and support? * Reverse engineering, schema generation & Complete compare using Erwin tool.? * Monitored backup operations, and schedules manual backups as needed? * Usage of tools like DB2 Load, Import, Export and Reorg, Run stats, Reorg Check, Backup, Restore, Db2move, and Db2look? * Performed Redirect restore.? * Performed Database migration/upgrades between multiple versions.? * Performed Server migration.? * Provide 24/7 On call support on rotational basis.? Environment: Java, Servlets, JDBC, JSP, IBM Web sphere Application Server 6.0.2, Veritas Net Backup, IBM DB2 UDB 8.2,9.1,9.5,9.7, Rational Application Developer (RAD), AIX 5.3.0.3, Oracle 9i,10g ,Sql Server 2000,2005 ,Sybase Senior database administrator Virtusa - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN - March 2011 to April 2013 Environment: DB2 UDB V9.1, v9.5 & v9.7 ,OS - AIX,Linux? ? As Database Administrator? * Installation of DB2 UDB v9.x on Linux, Windows operating system.? * Creation of databases, Managing Table spaces, allocating space.? * Monitoring and investigating the error logs.? * Trouble shooting the database issues.? * Movement of data using import-export and load utilities.? * Fix pack installations? * Configured archive logging and various backup strategies. Taking backups online/offline.? * Monitoring the DB Performance using various db2pd, db2top etc.? * Setup and maintain documentation and standards? * Database objects created, modified and dropped using DDL? * Manipulating objects using DML? * Working with Application team in creating tables, schemas, aliases, views and sequences as part of new database build.? * Granting / revoking various authorizations to different Users/Groups? * Creating Client instances for Application, Data stage and Cogon's servers and cataloged the required databases? * Resolution of user queries: Resolution for the user queries for all above tasks and application errors which are affected due to database level issues in day to day basis? * Database (DB2 UDB) maintenance and support? * Performance tuning the database for better and faster results? * Providing weekend on call support DB2 database administrator Posidex Technologies - June 2009 to February 2011 Environment: DB2 UDB v8.x , v9.1, v9.5 ,OS - AIX, Windows? ? As Database Administrator? * Actively Involved in Project Activities Like Creation of databases, Testing Applications connectivity, Bring the databases into Live? * Managing databases using Control center and command center in Windows servers? * Installing latest fix packs on the servers as per APAR's.? * Actively involved in version migration activities.? * Pulling the crystal reports for higher management review? * Attending status calls and war room meetings on daily and weekly basis? * Monitoring and investigating the error logs.? * Trouble shooting the database issues.? * Movement of data using import-export and load utilities.? * Scheduling the backups in Crontab.? * Providing on-call support.? * Configured archive logging and various backup strategies.? * Monitoring alert logs errors through? * Housekeeping Activities.? * Taking backups online/offline.? * Setup and maintain documentation and standards Skills AIX (7 years), DB2 (7 years), Linux (6 years), Solaris (Less than 1 year), UDB (7 years) Additional Information Skill SET? Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Sun Solaris AIX, RHEL and Windows Family? RDBMS/Administration DB2 UDB v8x, v9x, v10x? Tools Remedy DB2 , RTC, PE, DB2 OPM, TWS & HPSA? Ticketing tools HPSM, ASSIST, MAXIMO & BMC Remedy, ServiceNow
SQL Database Administrator;SQL Database Administrator/Developer:::SQL Database Administrator SQL Database Administrator Federal Way, WA - Over five years of professional experience as a SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) with solid experience in managing very large and highly transactional database systems. Working experience in planning, setting up and managing high availability and disaster recovery solutions. Solid experience on performance tuning, creating and tuning stored procedures, triggers, functions, constraints and views. Worked on developing and managing reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Highly motivated and take imitative to manage and work on different projects individually and as a team. Have strong business and technical vision with effective people skills, and has high aptitude for learning new technologies. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Database Administrator Costco Corporate Office - Issaquah, WA - June 2013 to Present Responsibilities:?  Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016 in development, Integration, Fast Track, Load, Training and production environments.?  Applied Service Pack (SP) and hot fixes (cumulative updates (CU) for Databases and Operating Systems.?  Upgraded Databases from MS SQL Server, 2005, 2008 to MS SQL Server 2012/2014/2016.?  Deployed and manage databases in development, Integration, Fast Track, Load, Training and production environments.?  Wrote SQL, T-SQL, Stored Procedure, Functions, Triggers and views.?  Created different database objects using SQL/T-SQL.?  Design, implement and manage different High Availability and Disaster Recovery Solutions such as database mirroring, log shipping, replication, Failover clustering and replications on different versions of SQL server.?  Installed, configured, and administered SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).?  Create and deploy different reports for different business purpose.?  Create and deploy different SSIS package to full fill ETL business requirements.?  Database Upgraded SQL Server 2000 to 2005/2008 and SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008/2012.?  Database Monitoring/Performance Tuning: Tune poorly performing queries, did index and statistics related recommendations.?  Automate different database related activities including backup, monitoring database health, disk space and backup verification using SSIS package and different queries.?  Database Programming: Wrote T-SQL, Trigger, Stored-Procedures, Functions and assisted database developers to optimize SQL queries and Stored Procedures.?  Backup/Recovery: Strong knowledge and working experience in designing, implement and manage Database Backup and Recovery solutions.?  Used DBCC to check database conditions, did indexes Reorganize/Rebuild and other database Maintenance tasks.?  Strong working experience in creating, modifying tables, Index (Cluster/Non-Cluster), Constraints (Unique/Check), Views, Developed Different Maintenance Plans for database monitoring?  Monitor Server Activity, and solving problem as needed. SQL Database Administrator/Developer Shorewise Consulting - Seattle, WA - February 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:?  SQL development: write and troubleshoot SQL code and design (SPs, functions, tables, views, triggers, indexes, constraints).?  Enhance database performance, perform restores, implement recovery procedures, handle performance tuning and conduct regular system backups. Ensure technical and functional designs meet business requirements.?  Creating and managing database resources, providing administration of database security including the monitoring and maintenance of user access.?  Monitoring, migrating, backup, recovery and tuning of SQL Server databases in a multi-platform environment.?  Utilize and analyze SQL Server Profiler to tune SQL Server 2008/R2 databases.?  Detect and troubleshoot SQL server related CPU / memory, I/O, disc space and other resource contention.?  Design and implement relational databases to support complex database systems and applications.?  Create documentation for installation, monitoring procedures, security policies, configuration changes, migration procedures, and best practices Data Analyst. Education Associate of Science in Computer Science Highline College - Seattle, WA December 2014 Certification in CERT- Client side scripting/programming Highline College - Seattle, WA June 2014 B.S. in Software Development in Software Development Western Governors University - Seattle, WA Skills Database (5 years), Databases (5 years), MS SQL Server (5 years), Performance Tuning (5 years), SQL (5 years), windows server operating systems (5 years), SQL Tools (5 years), ETL Tools (5 years), Reporting and Analysis Tools (5 years), Data Modeling (5 years), Hardware/Storage (5 years), Backup/Recovery (5 years), Server Virtualization (5 years) Additional Information Professional Expertise:? ? Database:?  Installation and configuration of MS SQL Server [?] during new projects, upgrade/migration and expansion.?  Strong work experience and knowledge in designing, implementing and managing SQL Server database high availability and disaster recovery solutions using SQL Server Failover Clustering, Replication, Log shipping, Database Mirroring and AlwaysOn.?  Working Experience in monitoring the health of database systems using different third-party tools and DMVs/DMFs.?  Working Experience in T-SQL Programming, tuning SQL queries and creating different database objects.?  Strong Database Administration experience with different MS SQL Server Versions and Editions (MS SQL Server [?]?  Worked on different database upgrade and migration projects. Upgrade from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server [?] and SQL Server [?] to SQL Server [?]?  Migrated Oracle, DB2, and MySQL databases to SQL Server [?]?  Did resource capacity planning for database servers, design and deploy databases to development, test and production environment.? ? SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL SKILS:? ? Database Administration/ Development SQL Server [?] [?] 2008, MS Access 2013, 2010, 2008,? Windows Server Operating Systems Windows Server [?]? SQL Tools Profiler, Query Execution Plan, Index and Database Tuning Advisor? ETL Tools SSIS/DTS, BCP? Reporting and Analysis Tools SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Reports? Data Modeling Toad Data Modeler, ERWin, Visio? Programming SQL, T-SQL, Stored Procedures, Trigger, Functions, HTML, JavaScript, ASP, ASP.net, Windows PowerShell Scripting? Hardware/Storage SAN, RAID, HP Array configuration utility.? Performance Tuning Tools Profiler, Query Execution Plan, Index and Database Tuning Advisor, Windows Event, System Stored Procedures, DBCC, DMV? Backup/Recovery SQL Server Native & Third-Party Tools (Idera SQL Safe and Redgate SQL Backup Pro)? Server Virtualization Worked on migrating and managing database systems on Hyper-V and VMware virtual machines.
Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator - Johnson Controls Atlanta, GA - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Johnson Controls - Atlanta, GA - May 2015 to Present  Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test, and staging purposes on linux-redhat and Windows environments.?  Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.?  Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.?  Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers, and UNIX shell scripts.?  Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.?  RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.?  Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.?  Perform health checks using crsctl and managing services using srvctl?  Performance Tuning for the SQL queries which are running slow and taking more CPU cost?  Creation of database objects like Tables, Indexes, Views, Users, and DB Links etc.?  Query optimizing using CBO (Cost Based Optimization) and Scheduled Oracle Jobs and Backups using CRONTAB.?  Efficiently performed installation, setup and creation of two node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL 5.5).?  Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability and Scalability.?  Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases?  Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database/application using OEM.?  Creating OEM alerts that provides notifications through emails.?  Monitoring rollback segment and temporary table space use.?  Table partitioning to improve I/O access?  Data Refresh from Production to Test and Development environments using RMAN Duplicate Database or Data Pump?  Performing monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.?  Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.?  Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls.?  Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.? Environment: Oracle 11g/11g RAC/10g, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Oracle Database Administrator Booz Allen Hamilton - Norfolk, VA - April 2012 to May 2015  Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.?  Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.?  Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRONTAB using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.?  Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and granting necessary privileges to the relevant groups.?  Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.?  Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".?  Experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.?  Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.?  Successfully migrated 10g Non CDB databases to 12C pluggable databases.?  Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.?  Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.?  Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.?  Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.? Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, Sun Solaris 10.0, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Education BSC in Geology University of Buea Skills Database (5 years), Oracle (5 years), RMAN (5 years), solaris (3 years), SQL (5 years) Military Service Service Country: United States Branch: US NAVY Rank: E-6 Awards Navy and Marine core achievement medal (Three) Navy meritorious unit commendation Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Additional Information Technical Skills? Operating Systems 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows [?]? RDBMS Oracle 12c, 11g, and 10g? Languages SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL.? Tools? AWR, ASH, ADDM, EXPLAIN PLAN AND STATSPACK. Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Team Viewer, LogMeIn and Cisco VPN Client? ? Database Utilities? SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import
Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator - City of Keene Keene, NH - I have over 7 years in-depth experience as an Oracle Database Administrator. I possess complete understanding of full SDLC life cycle. I have worked on Oracle 12c, 11g, and 10g versions. Projects include database administration, production support, database migration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, DB cloning, space management and security administration. Also worked on database upgrades and various patch installations.? * Extensive experience in managing large-scale OLTP and OLAP databases for HA and DR setup.? * Solid experience in oracle database migration, upgrades, applying patch sets, code reviews, database release and deployments and data center consolidation activities. Proficient with Database Cloning, Migration, and Patching of Oracle Databases.? * Expertise in setting up Data Guard Fail-Over/Switch-Over/Read-Only scenarios. Fabricated multiple CLONING databases using traditional method and RMAN utility for High availability configuration.? * Good exposure of Oracle DBA tasks like Installation and Configuration of Oracle Databases and Grid Infrastructure.? * Experience in maintaining Oracle Data Guard & Standby Database and providing critical solution with strategic disaster recovery plans with different recovery procedures and methods.? * Experience in using transportable tablespace, materialized view, RMAN incremental backup and bitmap indexes in data warehouse environment.? * Experience in Oracle Golden Gate 10.x/11.x installation, configuration, and troubleshooting Golden Gate issues.? * Zero downtime migration using oracle datapump and Golden Gate between Oracle 10g and 11g with Linux, Solaris, and Windows platforms.? * Experience in configuring Golden Gate replication between OLTP to OLTP, and OLTP to data warehousing environments.? * Experience in installing and patching Oracle RAC with ASM on AIX, Solaris and Linux platforms.? * Installed Oracle 11g with ASM and OCFS2 File systems.? * Highly experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting.? * Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE. Applying patches under UNIX platform.? * Supported 400+ databases including RAC production database, a Data warehouse database and a lot of Development and Test databases and upgraded from 10g to 11g.? * Provided Production & test environment support while coordinating with Unix Team and storage team to configure the OS infrastructure for Oracle Databases.? * Worked on setting up/installation and configuration of release 11g R2 RAC with ASM and Raw Devices and 11g CRS on IBM AIX 6.1.? * Performed conversion of Single Node Instance to multi node RAC with ASM, and adding instance to existing RAC.? * Installed and configured 6 node oracle 11gR2 RAC for production environment.? * Installed 12c Databases and responsible for upgrading Oracle 10g RAC to 11g RAC.? * Involved in Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting Golden Gate EXTRACT and REPLICATE issues.? * Experience in installation of Oracle RAC with ASM and manage RAC instance using Crsctl and Svrctl utility.? * Involved in migrating production databases single instance to RAC environment.? * Planned and Implemented Disaster Recovery (DR) and HA using RAC, Data Guard.? * Experience in configuring, managing and monitoring both Physical standby and Logical standby database using Data Guard and Have hands on experience on Active Dataguard.? * Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.? * Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".? * Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 12c) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.? * Worked with EXP/IMP, EXPDP/IMPDP to refresh the schemas and to move data between databases or different versions.? * Database Performance Tuning Diagnosing using AWR (Automated Workload Repository) / Stats pack and ASH (Active Session History) reports, ADDM (Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor) analysis.? * Proactive database monitoring via automatic Email and Text alerts of Alert.log, Listerner.log and Space errors to DBA cell phone? * Experience in Upgrading databases, applying patches.? * Managing Security Management, Schema Management, Instance Management, Storage/Space Management.? * Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.? * Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR and also Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC)? * Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues. Proficient in performance tuning using Explain Plan, STATSPACK, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM.? * Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Tuning, I/O Tuning)? * Expertise in Performing Tuning Database - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK (perfstat), SQL*Trace, TKPROF.? * Expert in Performance Tuning and Monitoring of Oracle Databases on Unix/Linux platform using database tuning, Tkprof, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL Tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory. Executed and implemented user helpdesk tickets of various issues via REMEDY database from creating user accounts, read-only accounts on a database & table down to assisting them with logging into the database. Experienced in using 10g features like 10g RMAN, Data pump Flash-Back Recovery and ASM.? * Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.? * Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.? * Experience in Data Migrations.? * Checking and resolving Database corruptions using DBVERIFY utility. Configured Manager, Replicate and Extract processes and implemented unidirectional, bidirectional replication using Oracle 11g Golden Gate on RHEL 5 platform.? * UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator City of Keene - Keene, NH - April 2015 to Present * DBA supporting three major projects from Development to Production via Tech-Test environments, involving daily configuration, administration all running on IBM AIX 5.3 & 6.1. Database sizes range from 2GB to 3TB (in ODS & EDW environments).? * Upgraded Oracle GRID, ASM and Database from 10g and 11g to 12c. Implement Oracle 12c new features in mission-critical production environments.? * Administering and setting up of 11g/12c RAC and clusterware and instances.? * Resolved RAC issues, OCR related issues, rebooting of faulty nodes, relocating the switched over services.? * Database Services creation for distributing the applications across multiple nodes, extensively used all command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD.? * Applying CPU/PSU Patches on ERP instance and Plain databases.? *  Configuration and maintenance of 11g RAC and Single Instance database environments.? * Installing ASM environment and migrating databases from NON-ASM to ASM.? * Created and monitored Physical standby databases on maximum protection, performance mode using Data guard for Disaster Recovery and High Availability.? * Experience of installing, configuring Golden Gate Replication from OLTP databases to Datawarehousing environments.? * Troubleshooting Golden Gate issues in both development and production environments.? * Performed Uni-directional and Bi-directional replication through Golden Gate for zero downtime Database migrations.? * Migrating and upgrading Oracle Database from 10gR1 on Solaris/Windows to 11gR2 on Linux environment using Datapump and Golden Gate replication.? * Upgrading Grid Infrastructure and databases from 11.2.0.1/11.2.0.2/11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4.? * Applied patches (Patch sets and CPU patches) and worked closely with Oracle to make Application environment up to date.? * Cloning of Test/DEV instances from Production systems.? * Maintained Oracle 11gR2 RAC high availability with ASM file system with Cluster Stat and Grid infrastructure on Linux environments. Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import. Creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.? * Analyzed SQL queries causing performance problems.? * Created, Configured, Upgraded And Administered 10.2.0.4/11.2.03 & 12.1 versions Oracle databases on Linux Red Hat and Cent OS on Vmware and bare-metal environments? * Performed an upgrade of Oracle Database from 11g to 12c.? * Creation and configuration of new database server and database environments.? * Performing Monthly Re-org of complete databases using expdp and impdp? * Experience in monitoring and tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.? * Disaster Recovery (DR) Plan Implemented using DATAGUARD (Physical Standby) for high availability/disaster recovery purpose on Oracle 11g.? * Performing DR switchover and failover operations.? * Participated in meetings for Project Updates/Project Enhancements/Trouble shooting periodically? * Maintaining database and middleware/SOA layer performance by identifying and resolving production and application development problems; calculating optimum values for parameters; evaluating, integrating, and installing new releases.? * Supported Oracle DB backups (online/offline), logical backups and UNIX scripts, created clone databases, configured standby database, performed DBA day-to-day activities? * Troubleshoot installation errors both independently and with Oracle support (via My oracle Support)? * Create oracle databases on configured servers using both the DBCA & Database creation scripts.? * Manage, tune and troubleshoot database issues both on UNIX command line, SQL*Plus, OEM client, Oracle 10g database control, oracle 10g Grid Control as well as other third party tools (TOAD, SQLDeveloper, DBArtisan and dbXpert for Oracle).? * Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration? * Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g export/import utility and Oracle 11g exp/imp data pump.? * Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR and also Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC)? * Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues.? * Proficient in performance tuning using Explain Plan, STATSPACK, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM. Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Tuning, I/O Tuning)? * Expertise in Performing Tuning Database - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK (perfstat), SQL*Trace, TKPROF.? * Expert in Performance Tuning and Monitoring of Oracle Databases on Unix/Linux platform using database tuning, Tkprof, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL Tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory. installation of 11.2.0.1 and 11.2.0.2 and 11.2.0.3 RAC databases on ASM and NFS file systems.? * Involved in design and enforcing of standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance? * Refreshed schema using Export/Import. Created the database, tablespace, tables, indexes, set privileges and user logins? * Worked on in house installation of Oracle on different platforms, loaded user data to reproduce the problem, applied new Oracle patch, managed database backup using RMAN, upgraded Oracle database 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.1? * Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both OEM (client), Oracle 10g database control & SQL*Plus, as well as pre-developed UNIX shell scripts.? ? Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2) , DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Database Administrator NewsBank, Inc - Chester, VT - February 2012 to April 2015 * Performed monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.? * Provided Development DBA support for developer queries and requests, Which includes query tuning, server tuning, identifying problematic code, etc? * Suggested and improved system design and architecture, this includes built New Oracle 10g/11g RAC Databases, ASM Physical and standby systems, enabling LDAP authentication and configuring RMAN backups.? * Monitored the operating system response in terms of CPU usage, disk space, and swap space by using various UNIX utilities like SAR, VMSTAT, IOSTAT and TOP.? * Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 10g/11g environments.? * Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.? * Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).? * Trouble shooting and performance tuning golden gate replications, monitoring scripts for Golden gate in Unix scripting? * Install and configure Cloud Control 12c, deploy 12c agents, plug-in installations on the target servers and monitor databases.? * Configure Oracle Advanced Security on 12c databases to implement Transparent Data Encryption at tablespace, table and column levels. Also configured Redaction using OEM's Policy expression builder.? * Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.? * Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.? * Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.? * Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (10.2.0.2) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.? * Implemented and configured 10g grid control on Production server and 11g grid control on? * Responded to all database alerts, warnings, errors in a timely, consistent manner.? * Escalated complex issues to internal team members and third party group members as appropriate.? * Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.? * Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.? * Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 11g environments.? * Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.? * Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).? * Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.? * Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on Sun Solaris platform.? * Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases..? * Utilized TOAD for database management.? ? Environment: Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, RAC, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Data Pump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN. Oracle Database Administrator City of Keene - Los Angeles, CA - June 2009 to February 2012 * Used Secure SCP & FTP extensively for the File transfers from machines to remote server.? * Application of Oracle software patches when/where necessary.? * Prepare the documents of the process and knowledge transferring about the project to the new team members. Performed daily database administration tasks: User management, Space monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning, Alert Log monitoring and backup monitoring.? * Performed Physical backup (hot and cold) as well as Logical backup (Export/Import).? * Proactively managed the databases; set up alarms for managing any exceptions in day to day management of the databases; pre-empted and prevented issues, disasters from happening.? * Monitoring tablespace issues, creating tablespaces and adding datafiles.? * Involved in session management and monitored the critical wait events, blocking sessions in the database.? * Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical? * Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).? * Creating & Managing Database Structures, Storage Allocations, Table/Index segments, Rollback segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.? * Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).? * Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.? * Database refreshes using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.? * Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.? * Used RMAN Duplicate and HOT/COLD backups to migrate the data from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.3.? * Created a stand by database by using RMAN Duplicate in order to reduce the down time for the PROD database during the migration process.? * Backup/Recovery monitoring and reporting using Oracle RMAN? * Create database Objects, Tablespaces, Schemas as needed.? * Schema migrations from Development to Production via Tech Test environments.? * Database refresh from Production to Tech Test as needed.? ? Environment: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 10.2.0.1, Oracle 11g, DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Education B.Sc. in Banking and Finance in Banking and Finance University of Buea Skills Database (8 years), Oracle (8 years), RMAN (8 years), Solaris (5 years), SQL (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY? ? Operating Systems: HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows [?]? RDBMS: Oracle 12c, 11g, and 10g? Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL.? Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Team Viewer, LogMeIn and Cisco VPN Client? Database Utilities: SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import
DBA;Database Administrator (Marketing);SQL Database Administrator:::DBA DBA - Midwest Gaming - Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DBA Midwest Gaming - May 2016 to Present duties including: database backups, restores, performance tuning, and capacity analysis?  Generated the weekly, monthly, and quarterly report by using SQL Reporting Services?  Developed, modified, and optimized complex stored procedures, triggers to handle complex business rules, history data and audit analysis?  Managed the products and development databases including performance tuning, capacity planning, SQL Server clustering, database security configuration, and database continuity?  Designed and implemented SQL Server 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016 databases for mission-critical business?  Troubleshoot databases and custom application issues?  Developed and created stored procedures, advanced queries, triggers, views, indexes, and functions for databases?  Work with end users to define, implement, and maintain their reporting requirements?  Participated and coordinated the creation, modification and maintenance of database structures with minimal supervision?  Assisted in the design, coding, testing and implementation of SQL databases instances?  Wrote, evaluated and optimized complex SQL codes, stored procedures and scripts for maintenance and reporting purposes?  Developed and documented SQL coding guidelines?  Demonstrated an understanding of database internals and application database components (e.g. triggers, functions, packages) Database Administrator (Marketing) Rivers Casino - December 2014 to April 2016  Assists Database Marketing Manager in analyzing effectiveness of programs and promotions by utilizing data mining and pro formas and any other effective methodology.?  Responsible for test and control methodologies and back-end analysis of all campaigns, including return on investment analysis.?  Create statistically based predictive analyses to support business and marketing strategy and consumer behavior conclusions.?  Provides input to marketing on customer's tastes, preferences and segmentation analysis.?  Develop and implement customer surveys, data collection tools, monthly segmentation reports, database hygiene and other reports as required.?  Reporting and analyzing; redemptions, membership enrollments, tracked play, ADT, time played, action and any other information requested.?  Perform data research and data quality audits.?  Develop marketing tools to utilize for analysis.?  Help define requests for support from other marketing areas.?  Develops recommendations for direct marketing tools that improve marketing efficiencies and effectiveness.?  Serves as liaison between marketing and IT on issues related to data mining and database integrity.?  Manages analysis from inception to completion, developing actionable recommendations.?  Supports tests of new marketing technology, especially segmentations.?  Issues new and replacement players club cards to patrons.?  Adjust Complimentary and/or points in player accounts.?  All other duties as assigned SQL Database Administrator WHOLE FOOD - Chicago, IL - December 2010 to July 2012  Performed backups of all SQL Servers as required?  Ensured security of the database servers by implementing applicable security patches and maintaining appropriate security measures.?  Monitored and maintained database performance and identified/recommended areas that can be improved.?  Managed and executed maintenance jobs that ensured the stability and performance of the database servers.?  Performed Administration tasks on SQL Server 2005, tuning, configuration, troubleshooting.?  Installed, configured, and administer Microsoft SQL database instance?  Created and/or maintain clear documentation regarding all components of database administration?  Ensured all servers related trouble tickets are handled appropriately.?  Coordinated with platform hosting vendor(s) DBAs to ensure proper support, maintenance, and tuning of various databases?  Developed, tested, and maintained a backup and recovery process to ensure proper system continuity in the case of an unforeseen event.?  Assists in providing documentation detailing the design and architecture of the databases, as well as the administration, backup procedures and data recovery steps.?  Worked with other DBA's in the recovery of corrupted databases, timely troubleshooting of all database-related problems and emergency response to all production downtime events.?  Monitored application and database performance, and adjusted database parameters, application code or schema as needed.?  Monitored space usage, and adjust database as needed.?  Monitored backup operations, and schedules manual backups as needed.?  Participated and coordinated the creation, modification and maintenance of database structures with minimal supervision. Skills database (4 years), databases (2 years), maintenance (2 years), MS SQL SERVER (2 years), security (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY?  Experience writing, debugging, and tuning Transactional SQL?  Ability to ensure the technical integrity of corporate databases by protecting against the loss or misuse of information and designing backup/recovery strategies?  Responsible for troubleshooting and problem solving of SQL Server?  Responsible for improvement and maintenance of the databases to include release rollout and upgrades?  SQL Server Replication?  Experience managing multiple MS SQL RDBMS on web-based transactions.?  Database administration including installation, configuration, upgrades, capacity planning, performance tuning, backup and recovery and managing clusters of SQL servers?  Experience with DBLC and BUM design models?  Maintenance and tuning of databases and replication?  Experience with setup and administration of SQL Server Database Security environments using Profiles, database Privileges and Roles?  Provide SQL Server database physical model creation and implementation (data type, indexing, table design)?  Third party tools worked with includes but not limited to: Spotlight, UC4, My IT Services, System Management Services (SMT), and Desktop Central.? ? TECHNICAL SKILLS? ?  RDBMS: SQL 2005, SQL [?] SQL 2012, 2014, 2016. Database Administration, XML Replication, Enterprise Environments, Tuning, SQL Profiler, Clustering, SQL Server Integration Services and SQL Server?  Database Coordinator;Database Analyst;Database Administrator:::Database Coordinator Fairfax, VA - Database Professional with 6+ years of experience working in the database management system, possesses impeccable written and verbal communication sills and excellent interpersonal and business skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Coordinator Falls Church, VA - January 2017 to Present  Gather, maintain instructors' database for the organization and create the reports for senior management to assist in decision making processes.?  Provide assistance to supervisor in managing the on-boarding processes for the instructors as needed.? Research, analyze, document and create queries, reports and resolve concerns and issues for the reports and for the end users.?  Create and maintain complex SQL queries and reports for analysis and extraction. Database Analyst SM CORPORATION - Vienna, VA - October 2007 to June 2014  Involved in gathering, analyzing, maintaining documents of business software requirements and understand software functionality.?  Involved and managed redesign of on-boarding processes for accounting, marketing, and Human Resources departments.?  Researched, analyzed and documented existing business processes for mobile and hand held devices.?  Conduct process improvement focus groups as part of functional specifications design for mobile devices.?  Involved in collecting requirements through focus groups, interviews, observation techniques, surveys, and JAD sessions and translated them into system requirements.?  Responsible for conducting meetings, with end users, stakeholders to identify concerns and issues and modify the business processes to ensure robust and accurate solutions.?  Developed documentation for client training and support materials, created and documented test scripts for functional specifications testing and system application training.?  Created and managed plan for implementing new web based human resources application including requirements gathering, process flow documentation, testing and training. Database Administrator UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE - Alexandria, VA - March 2007 to July 2007  Proficient in creating SQL queries for data manipulation, data validation as per requirements.?  Write complex SQL queries to perform the backend testing of the MS SQL Server database.?  Report and maintain the documentation for the daily status of test cases executed/failed to the team members and manager.?  Created, edited, and documented job schedule, scripts and maintenance plan to reduce the network traffic in the business hours. Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science in Energy & Engineering GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY - Washington, DC Associate Degree in Computer Information Systems in Applied SUNY, WESTCHESTER COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Valhalla, NY Skills Customer Service (Less than 1 year), Detail oriented (Less than 1 year), RECEPTIONIST (Less than 1 year), RETAIL SALES (Less than 1 year) Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES? ?  Customer service?  Detail oriented and organized?  Customer relationship?  Team oriented
SQL Database Administrator;Database Administrator |ADASTRA:::SQL Database Administrator SQL Database Administrator - Swift Tax Alexandria, VA - Database Administrator (DBA) with over four years of experience in installing, configuring and maintaining various versions of SQL and Window servers. Proficient in database administration and installation, performance tuning and capacity monitoring, data security, backup and recovery as well as supporting high availability database-backed web solutions. Dedicated team player with excellent analytical, interpersonal and communication skills. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Database Administrator Swift Tax - Washington, DC - January 2015 to Present  Serve as a DBA on large-scale data driven projects, regularly enhancing database performance, conducting system backups, handling performance tuning, implementing recovery procedures and applying service packs and patches.?  Install, configure & administrate Microsoft SQL Server 2008 and 2012 instances that have been installed in multi-node clustered environments at the operating system level, standalone and clustered servers.?  Work on advanced features of SQL Server 2012 and SQL server clusters with multiple nodes on each cluster and other methods of disaster recovery.?  Migrate Microsoft SQL databases from one platform to another and databases from Oracle, MySQL, Access and other SQL Servers to different versions of SQL Servers.?  Configure SQL Server and services, startup parameter, server network connectivity. Import and export data between SQL Server and other sources such as Flat file, CSV file, Oracle, MySQL, Access, ODBC/OLEDB data sources, etc. using SSIS and Import/Export Wizard.?  Create and maintain high availability solutions including Database Mirroring, Log Shipping, Replication, Clustering and Always On.?  Document and implement Database Backup and Recovery for DR solutions including knowledge of Point-in-Time Recovery.?  Install, configure and administer SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) develop.?  Create and managed database security, data encryption, and applied object level security.?  Perform database monitoring and performance tuning Practice of root cause analysis by using wait statistics, DMV, system store procedure.?  Handle database performance tuning, using tuning methodology, including enterprise manager, query plans, performance views, trace files and other SQL Server tools.?  Proactively monitor the production database(s) and optimize stored procedures for better performance.?  Maintain database documentation as required.?  Perform database Ad-hoc backups and restores.?  Trouble shoot, resolve database connectivity issues and follow Problem Management processes to troubleshoot and resolve recurring issues.?  Proactively monitor and respond to MSSQL database Alerts. 24 x 7 On-call support to ensure database operations and closely work with business specialist to arrange databases and manage availability.?  Perform day-to-day and long-term monitoring of system health as it relates to database usage and routine.?  Perform research into database performance issues and come up with solutions to address those concerns.?  Conduct database health checks using extended event, performance monitor, performance counters and DBCC commands. Database Administrator |ADASTRA Freddie Mac - McLean, VA - August 2013 to December 2015  Managed and maintained all production and non-production databases in MS-SQL 2005 to MS-SQL 2014.?  Supported transactional replication technologies in high availability environment.?  Installed and configure new MS-SQL Servers.?  Performed backup and recovery of SQL databases, configured database indexes, defined data repository requirements, data dictionaries and warehousing requirements.?  Troubleshot SQL Server service outages as they occur, including after-hours and weekends.?  Supported multiple services and databases of medium to high complexity (complexity defined by database size, technology used, systems feed and interfaces) with multiple concurrent users, ensuring control, integrity and accessibility of data.?  Responsible for designing, coding, testing and maintaining database objects, tables, views, packages, functions, procedures, indexes, sequences and triggers.?  Implemented and maintained SQL Reporting Services and SQL Server Integration Services.?  Performed daily maintenance of SQL Servers (databases, backups, drive space, resource utilization).?  Maintained MS-SQL 2012 data that was supported by CDC technologies. Education Bachelor's Degree in Accounting George Mason University - Fairfax, VA Skills databases (5 years), MS SQL Server (3 years), Oracle (2 years), SQL Server (5 years) Certifications/Licenses MCITP: Database Administrator MCTS: Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist Certification: SQL Oracle 11g Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:?  Business Applications: Excel, Microsoft Project, Word, PowerPoint, Access, SharePoint, Photoshop, Dropbox?  Databases: MS SQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008, 2008 R2, 2005,?  Window Server: 2003, 2008 and 2012, Oracle, SQL Server, MS Access, QuickBooks.?  Programming: Visual Basic 6, Visual Basic 5, C, C++& SQL?  Business Intelligence/Reporting: Business Objects, Mathematica
Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Unemployed due;Oracle Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator - IBM Jacksonville, FL - To utilize the skills and knowledge of data and database technologies I have obtained as a Senior Database Administrator to help improve the environment in which I am tasked to manage. To assist my team members by providing assistance with any issues in the environment. To improve the performance and availability of the environment in which I am tasked to manage. To pass my knowledge on to others through mentoring. To further my knowledge in current and new data / database technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator IBM - Atlanta, GA - April 2003 to Present  I was a DBA employed by Internet Security Systems from April 2003 to August 2006 until Internet Security Systems was acquired by IBM in August 2006.?  Responsible for working with development engineers, QA Engineers and stakeholder's of IBM Security Services to gather requirements for projects that require database systems to be built.?  Responsible for designing, planning, installing and setting up database systems for the following Database Technologies (Oracle, DB2, MS SQL Server, MySQL and PostgreSQL) in our Development, Stage, Pre-Production, Disaster Recovery and Production environments. We are now deploying several assets in SoftLayer.?  Responsible for managing all database systems availability, database security, database upgrades, performance tuning, backup and recovery, documenting database procedures and processes via out wiki systems and end-user requests.?  Responsible for ensuring our database systems are being monitored by our Enterprise Nagios system. Must create the nagios check to allow nagios system to alert on issue and create tickets within our BMC Remedy ARS system.?  Responsible for reviewing requirements for any new database technologies for our division and determining how this technology can be integrated into our infrastructure.?  Responsible for assisting System Administrators and Network Engineers on our team with system, o/s and application issues.?  Responsible for assisting in the planning and implementation of our Business Disaster Recovery test. I have to help maintain the database recovery documentation and backups as well as maintain some Security Management Station (Site Protector, McAfee Network Security systems, Cisco Security system and etc..) documentation and backups?  Responsible for completing tasks within projects.?  Responsible for assisting in the management of our BigInsights infrastructure as it relates to data / database management. Oracle Database Administrator Systemware - Alpharetta, GA - October 2002 to April 2003  Responsible for setting up Oracle 8.1.7 & 9.0.1 database systems in a distributed environment using Oracle Advanced Replication within a nuclear pharmacy company?  Responsible for creating and administering the staging, testing, and QA, development and project database environments.?  Perform daily standard database administrator tasks on production database, production-staging database, test databases, QA databases, and development databases. Tasks include database design and creation, database security, backup and recovery planning and implementation, documenting database job processes, writing UNIX shell scripts and PL/SQL procedures, functions, and packages to perform routine maintenance jobs and monitoring of critical systems and jobs, performance tuning, and troubleshooting application, end-user and database issues. Unemployed due Brokat Technologies by Metavante - June 2002 to October 2002 to acquisition of Brokat Technologies by Metavante. Oracle Database Administrator Metavante - Norcross, GA - November 2000 to June 2002  Responsible for setting up Oracle 8.0.5.2.1 and 8.1.6 database systems in a three-tiered architecture which consists of the following systems: two Apache web servers (user load balancing), two Brokat Twister Application servers (application load balancing) and one Oracle 8.0.5.2.1 database with Veritas Clustering Server for database fail over between two Sun 420R systems.?  Responsible for administering the production, staging, testing, and QA, development and project environments.?  Perform daily standard database administrator tasks on production database, production-staging database, test databases, QA databases, and development databases. Tasks include database design and creation, database security, backup and recovery planning and implementation, documenting database job processes, writing shell scripts to perform routine maintenance jobs and monitoring of critical systems and jobs, performance tuning, and troubleshooting application, end-user and database issues.?  Perform nightly online database backups, nightly full database exports, and a weekly cold backup against the database system. Recovery of these databases has been thoroughly tested in a test environment.?  Responsible for running weekly table and index analyzes with computed statistics.?  Responsible for backing up the UNIX System Administrators in managing Sun 420R systems, which house Apache Web servers, Brokat proprietary application servers, and Oracle database systems.?  Assisted in mentoring other database administrators and system administrators, who are not familiar with the architecture of Oracle database systems and o/s systems. Education Bachelor's in Computer information Systems Mercer University - Atlanta, GA January 2001 to August 2004 Skills ORACLE (10+ years), DB2 (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years), SQL SERVER (10+ years), DATABASES (10+ years), System Administration (10+ years) Additional Information SKILLS? Databases:? Oracle RDBMS (7.x - 12c) SQL Server 2000 - 2012? Oracle 12c RAC MySQL (3.x - 5.6.x) DB2 9.7, 10.x? PostgreSQL (9.0 - 9.4.x) Sybase AS (10.x to 11.9)? ? Operating Systems: UNIX (SunOS, Solaris, HP-UX, Redhat Linux) Windows [?]? ? Programming Languages:? Oracle SQL, Oracle PL/SQL (stored procedures, triggers, functions, packages and etc.), SQL Server T-SQL and dos batch scripting, UNIX Shell scripting (korn and bourne shell), Perl (not proficient)? ? Big Data Platforms: IBM BigInsights (1.x to 4.x)
Freelance part time;Senior Database Administrator;Senior Database Administrator;Senior Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Audit Assistant;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Technical Support Manager;Database Administrator:::Freelance part time Freelance part time - J. C. Caceres Omaha, NE - Work Experience Freelance part time J. C. Caceres - February 2016 to Present Advise and assistance to companies CANTV and PDVSA on revision of database design, setting up database utilities, upgrading and patching DB2 versions, performance tuning, disaster recovery strategies and tests, fail over clustering, HADR, et cetera. Review plans to set DB2 LUW database warehouse creation from DB2 z/OS databases. Assistance on script revision. Review plans on upgrade for DB2 z/OS software. Senior Database Administrator First Data, Nebraska - May 2014 to October 2015 Work on DB2 ESE 9.x & 10.x versions, doing installation, upgrade, Fix Pack application, deployments, migrations and performance tuning. Regularly work on DBA maintenance activities like setting up and schedule: reorgs, runstats, back-up, recovery, restore, etc. Collaboration on database physical design. Regularly doing application optimization, taking care of query performance issues on production environments. Ability to understand and fix production issues on the fly and conduct root cause analysis. Exposure on DR test & strategies like Fail-over Clustering/HADR. Knowledge of IBM standard tool for performance monitoring. Good communication skills. Knowledge on ITIL methodologies, and software for Change, Incident, Problem, and Service Management. Interaction with Websphere MQ. Senior Database Administrator Mutual of Omaha, Nebraska - Omaha, NE - May 2013 to March 2014 Working with UDB ESE V9/V10 on Linux and AIX environments. Work on physical design, implementation and support for Databases in Test, Development and Production environments. Work on procedure and scripts to upgrade databases to DB2 version 10. Tuning of SQL statements using EXPLAIN. Check on daily backup, reorg, runstats utility processes, correcting any problems. Set up recovery and restore procedures. Provide support for availability, performance and data integrity for application systems. Implement physical models using ERWIN for database elements creation and changes. Also worked on mainframe DB2 V10 on creation and maintenance of database elements like tables, columns, indexes and grants. Tuning SQL and rebinding packages. Interfaces with Websphere MQ Senior Database Administrator DST Systems, Missouri - July 2007 to September 2012 Under DB2 ESE on Linux, Unix (AIX/Solaris) and Windows environments worked on physical design, implementation and support for Data Bases on 8 Mutual Fund systems for more than 60 different Financial Institutions, which utilize Test, Development, Beta and Production environments: on 11 servers, 36 DB2 instances, 120 databases and around 100 Terabytes in disk space. Also work on installation/update, migration and Fix Pack application on DB2 for LUW, and same on software related. Constantly keeping software versions and releases up to date. Query Performance optimization using EXPLAIN. Request for ports, telecommunication nodes, user codes and disk space for new servers and DB2 instances. Take part in the physical design, capacity planning, and database maintenance planning. Assistance to application's user interface design and prototypes. Provided support for availability, performance and data integrity for application systems. Control activities related to database administration, development and maintenance. Implement scripts and crontab schedules for periodic reorganizations, runstats, rebinds, also other periodical maintenance and control tasks. Provide database/tablespace restore or recovery on needed cases. Implemented table partitioning and database Federation for several databases. Interaction with Websphere MQ. Database Administrator DAIMLER CHRYSLER - May 1999 to June 2007 Supported over 30 databases in mainframe and distributed systems on 18 manufacturing and assembly plants. Physical designed, administered, tuned and maintained DB2 ESE/WSE and IMS Databases on AIX, Linux and z/OS environments for the company's applications. Instalation, upgrade, Fix Pack application, and Database migration when software changes needed for DB2 LUW ESE/WSE environments. Day to day support includes IMS databases, DB2 (on AIX, Linux and z/OS) Tables and Indexes creation, testing support, SQL performance optimization, conversion and production implementation, query performance optimization, Explain SQL, set up Backup/Recovery/Reorg/Restore/Runstat utilities. Using PARALLEL/SYSPLEX mainframe environments. Worked under SARBAINE - OAXLEY audit procedures. Designed and implemented 24X7 "Kanban/Just In Time" mission critical application that supported 28 plants, with outstanding performance and reliability Database Audit Assistant GTE - April 1999 to May 1999 Project assessment on Customer Claims and Repairs Help Desk system. Audit interviews to project leaders and user representatives involved on the system. Analyze artifacts needed to verify good project management practices. Translations from Spanish done when needed. Database Administrator AMERICAN EXPRESS, Florida - October 1998 to April 1999 Work on re-design on an application and make several modifications to COBOL DB2 program. Create 750 jobs for the new Spool Database System using JSCAN. Changeman as change control software, JOBTRAC to schedule and run jobs, JHS (Job History System) and PDSMAN - EZYEDIT to edit programs and JCL's. Database Administrator CANTV - Caracas, VE - March 1995 to September 1998 Coordinate and led the activities of 3 analyst doing administration of IMS/ESA environment. Planned and executed activities like installation, test, evaluation, customization, implementation and maintenance of a variety of software. Provided support to Trouble Administration System (TAS) and Billing & Voucher Treatment (BVT) which were GTE applications. Designed, customized and tuned IMS environments to meet service level agreements within required time frame. Installed IMS 5.1. Developed IMS procedure manuals. Day to day support includes PSB, DBD, and ACB gens, testing support, conversion and production implementation. Walk in support for application programmers in COBOL, IMS DB, IMS DC. Technical Support Manager BANCO LA GUAIRA - Caracas, VE - April 1994 to February 1995 Directed a 12 system analyst team in charge of technical support to software products and disk storage administration in a MVS/XA environment. Provided operating support to 50 offices around the country. Managed and Supervised installation, test, evaluation customization and maintenance of software products. Database Administrator BANCO LA GUAIRA - Caracas, VE - June 1991 to March 1994 Administration and maintenance of IMS Databases and systems environment for the bank's applications. Design, modify and implement logical/physical database models. Work on IMS to DB2 application conversion project. DB2 installation. Education Computer Science Universidad Central de Venezuela Skills AIX (10+ years), DB2 z/OS (10+ years), IMS (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Websphere (7 years), DB2 LUW (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS? Operating Systems: AIX, LINUX, Solaris, z/OS (PARALLEL/SYSPLEX), OS/390, MVS, WINDOWS XP/Vista/7/8? Control Languages: SCRIPT, KORNSHELL, JCL, CA7/CA11, SMP/E, SIPO/E, RACF, ACF II? Data Base Systems:? DB2 LUW [?] DB2 Connect, DB2 Stored Procedures, BMC Catalog Manager/Change Manager, BMC MAINVIEW, Visual EXPLAIN, Power Designer, DB2 Z/OS V8/V9/V10, IMS DB/DC V8, VSAM, BMC DB2/IMS UTILITIES, OMEGAMON/DB2/IMS, TOTAL, DMS II? ? Editors: VI, TSO, ISPF, ROSCOE, XEDIT, OWL, CANDE? Programming Languages: COBOL, EASYTRIEVE, ALGOL, PL/I, MANTIS, FORTRAN? Monitors:? NMON, Data Studio, DB2Top, DB Artisan, Optim, TOAD DB2, DB2PD, QUEST DB2:Central, Spotlight, Agent & Optimizer, BMC Patrol, TMON, OMEGAVIEW, SAMS DISK, ASTEX? ? Development tools: FILEAID, XPEDITER, VISIO, SYNCSORT, CA ENDEVOR, CHANGEMAN, JOBTRAC, PDSMAN, EZYEDIT? Transactions/Networks: IMS DC, CICS, WEBSPHERE, NDL? Other tools:? Datastage, Cognos, CommVault, TSM, Infosphere Change Data Capture (ICDC V6.5), Jira, Confluence, LOTUS/NOTES V8.5, Clarity, Kronos, BMC Remedy, ITIL, Crontab, MicroSoft OFFICE, PROFS, SAP
Database Administrator;SQL SERVER ADMINISTRATOR;DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR:::Database Administrator SQL SERVER ADMINISTRATOR Des Moines, IA -  7 + years of experience in Database Administration, Database Design, Modeling, Development & Support of MS SQL and Oracle Database in Production & Development environments.?  Good knowledge of MS SQL Server [?] 2014 and Oracle 10,11g and 12c?  Experience in Database Mirroring as Disaster Recovery Solution.?  Experience in installation, configuration, maintenance, security, backup, troubleshooting, performance turning of MS SQL Server 2008r2, 2012, 2014 and Oracle RDBMS (10g, 11g, 12c) in a Linux, Solaris and Windows environment.?  Experience in Creating Tables, Views, Triggers, Cursors, Dynamic Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions and other Transact-SQL (DDL, DML) statements for various applications.?  Worked with SSMS & SSRS for various BI requirements.?  Proficiency and Expertise in SQL Server Replication, Backup/Recovery, Disaster recovery and planning.?  Tracked Server Activity, Query Performance and Disk usage activity statistics via Performance Data Collection.?  Experience in RMAN Backup and Recovery, database cloning, flashback technology and Oracle Enterprise Manager.?  Experience in building Adhoc Reports, Parameterized Reports, Linked Reports, Toggle Reports, and Reports with Sub Reports using SSRS.?  Experience in data migrating (using tools like DTS, BULK_INSERT, BCP) between different homogeneous/heterogeneous systems and SQL Server as a part of Data Migration and Data Maintenance.?  Information Systems Technology experience with a solid reputation for productivity,?  Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers.?  Experienced, self-motivated Oracle DBA with excellent problem solving, multi-tasking?  Experience in Database migration using Data Pump, Export/Import and Transportable.?  Experience in creation of logins, users and configuring permissions and assigning roles to users. Good understanding of Normalization /De-normalization, Normal Form and database design methodology.?  Expertise in RDBMS, data warehouse architecture and modeling, ETL and DTS/SSIS experience. Work Experience Database Administrator Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines - Des Moines, IA - September 2016 to May 2017  Expertise in Always-On Availability Groups (AAG) and HA/DR Setup and Configuration?  Responsible for installing, upgrading and configuring the Oracle environment by creating databases, storage structures and objects, database backup and recovery, monitoring and optimizing database performance.?  Applied CPU patches.?  Implemented Oracle database backup & recovery solutions using RMAN and manual methods.?  Installed and configured Oracle Enterprise manager 13c?  Migrated Databases from 11g standard Edition to 12c Enterprise Edition?  Automated Database Maintenance Jobs on Oracle Enterprise manager?  Training Overview of configured Oracle Enterprise Manager?  Migrated SQL server 2008 to SQL Server 2012 in Microsoft Windows Server 2012 Enterprise Edition.?  User management and database security imposition by creation and granting of roles and privileges.?  Create Logins and Granting privileges as per requirement.?  Implement DBA maintenance tasks for increase the Database performance with the help of Re-indexing, Re-organize index, and Update Statistics.?  SQL Server jobs scheduling and creating alerts and operators and Trouble shoot the Job failures.?  Extensively worked on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).?  Recovering the databases from backup in disasters. Implementing Point-In-Time Recovery solutions.?  Identify problems, find root cause and perform tuning to ensure application performance?  Involved in Source Data Analysis, analysis and designing mappings for data extraction also responsible for Design and Development of SSIS Packages to load the Data from various Databases and Files.?  Experience in using SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA).?  Expert in implementing the snapshot isolation and DDL triggers?  Managing security roles in SQL Server. ?  Analyze long running slow queries and tune the same to optimize application and system performance.?  Provided 24x7 on-call supports. Supported systems beyond regular hours/ weekends/ holidays SQL SERVER ADMINISTRATOR US CELLULAR - 2013 to 2016  Installation and administration of SQL server 2008/2008R2.?  Implemented procedure documents in place to ensure smooth day to day administration of databases.?  User management and database security imposition by creation and granting of roles and privileges.?  Create Logins and Granting privileges as per requirement.?  Implement DBA maintenance tasks for increase the Database performance with the help of Re-indexing, Re-organize index, and Update Statistics.?  SQL Server jobs scheduling and creating alerts and operators and Trouble shoot the Job failures.?  As a part of a DBA Team Providing 24/7 support to servers and the databases?  Addressing user Requests which comes in the form of e-mails(tickets)?  Implemented Log-Shipping as high availability solution?  Implementation of backup strategy?  Managed Level 2 DBA Team and tasks assignment to the team, with a very good follow-up on all tickets to maintain SLAs?  Performed DR practice tests for Data Centers outages regionally?  Creating and Maintaining Database Maintenance Plans.?  Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted databases. This involved index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases.?  Used Microsoft SQL Server Migration Assistant 2012 for Oracle.?  Checking of logs, windows system monitor alerts.?  Developed, implemented, configured and maintained operational procedures and programs, including disaster recovery, system security.?  Created Numerous Stored procedures, Functions for data analysis.?  Provide 24*7 ONCALL support as per the scheduled routines DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR SPRINT - 2011 to 2013  Solid experience in database development and support. Database migration, SQL Server 2012 to Oracle 11G?  Implemented SQL Server Replication models, writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Managing Indexes etc?  Experience in Installation and configuration of SSRS, SSIS and SSAS?  Support and provided Performance Tuning (System level/Database Level/Query Level) and optimization.?  Performed daily database administration on production environments?  Installed, and configured oracle database for test, development and integration environments.?  Performed constant and proactive database monitoring and support.?  Performed database flashbacks on development environment databases as requested.?  Performed user account management such as account lockouts, password resets, and account creation, role and profile assignment.?  Responsible for database patching and upgrades.?  Allocated storage, creating tablespaces, adding and resizing datafiles to existing tablespaces, creating and multiplexing redo log files, etc. for redundancy?  Documented changes made to the servers, including documentation of performance issues.?  Regularly checked OS Event Logs and SQL Server Logs for unusual events?  Worked with Legacy Oracle System and SQL server 2012 R2 Servers.?  Data Migration from Legacy system to SQL Server 2012 R2 databases.?  Designed and worked with Different RDBMS.?  Used Microsoft SQL Server Migration Assistant 2012 for Oracle.?  Created Normalized staging databases and used them for efficient data migration process.?  Created Linked Server to Oracle 11 to open query for SSRS.?  Creating SSIS packages for Nightly pulls from Legacy to SQL server 2008R2 server.?  Performance Tuning to increase the speed and performance of website, tuning hardware and software requirements.?  Created Numerous Stored procedures, Functions for data analysis.?  In SQL 2008R2 set up Database Partitioning to improve query performance.?  Introduced and Implemented Features like Data and Backup compression and transparent data encryption to reduce I/O and to maintain security respectively.?  Suggested and modified code and schema changes for database objects and scripts following Best practices.?  Monitoring and Troubleshooting jobs, Backups and Restore database policies. Education Bachelor's Lagos State University Skills Operating Systems MS Win 2K, 2003,Agile,Oracle Enterprise manager,RMAN,Linux,Toad Terminal Server, UNIX Sun Solaris, and OS/390, Windows Server 2008 Hardware IBM Cluster Servers, Dell and Compaq Servers, Dell PERC and IBM raid array controllers, Sun SPARC E3000, EMC Storage, HP Disk Array Management Database MS SQL Server 2005/2008R2, 2000, 7.0, 6.5, Oracle 11g,12c, CA-IDMS and Progress Database Tools DTS Designer, Enterprise Manager, SQL profiler, SQL Data Warehouse OLAP,RMAN, MS analysis server, Data mining server, Multi dimensional cubes, Star and Snow flake schema, SQL Data Transformation services (DTS) Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, Microsoft Reporting Server SQL Server Tools SQL profiler, Meta Data services, Microsoft Reporting Server, MS Visio and XML Software & Application Tools Mercury interactive Load Runner 6.5,Radview Web load 4.5, Load Balancing servers, MTS and MS BizTalk servers, Microsoft Dynamics ,SharePoint,SCCM Backup Tools SQL Backtrack, Legato Networker 6.0 & other Third party tools. System/Network Monitoring HP Open View, March NT, Bind view, BMC monitoring tools and TND scheduler Data Modeling: Dimensional Data, Erwin, ER/Studio, Visio, Star Schema, Snowflake, Tables, Physical and Logical. (7 years)
ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR;Oracle Database Administrator:::ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - Vomoz Hyattsville, MD - Commitment | Leadership | Integrity? I am a highly skilled IT professional with over 5+ years experience providing mission critical oracle database solutions to private and government clients. Background experience involves working with technical teams and clients to determine data requirements, data storage, data analysis, administration, security in both transactional or datawarehouse environments. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Vomoz - February 2015 to Present Vomoz provides convenient, high quality international long distance phone service with spectacular high-savings international calling cards.? * Hands on working with various versions of Oracle (10g, 11g and 12c).? * Installing and configuring Oracle database software.? * Creating and managing database users, roles, privileges and permissions.? * Configuring and managing the various database security approach.? * Designed and configured Oracle backup strategy for the company.? * Performance tuning - index tuning, partitioning, materialized views, function based index, sql parsing.? * Very good with oracle database performance tool, Enterprise Manager.? * Externsive development of stored procedures and packages using PL/SQL.? * Software quality control and assurance., Organize and attend client meetings to get client system requirements, Project manager for a few clients. Maintain Client ticket request system and company's internal ticket request system.? * Database design, implementation, development, maintenance, regression testing and improvements. Oracle Database Administrator Infospace - September 2013 to January 2015 Provides a variety of web-based content and services including phone directories, weather information, stock quotes and search engines. Education Associates Degree Prince George's Community College University of Maryland University College Skills AMM (Less than 1 year), CHANGE MANAGEMENT (Less than 1 year), DATABASE (3 years), Oracle (5 years), sql (5 years) Additional Information Technical Profile? * Excellent experience in installation and configuration of Oracle 10g, 11g, and 12c in LINUX/UNIX and windows operating system.? * Expertise in Installation, configuration and use of OEM and Grid Control.? * Advanced knowledge in SQL commands.? * In depth knowledge of Oracle upgrade from 11g to 12c.? * Proficiency in Oracle Datapump/Data Migration.? * Expertise in utilizing OPatch.? * Proficiency in Oracle database Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN.? * Experience with Oracle unique features like ASM, ASH, AWR, ADDM, ASSM, AMM, Undo management, Grid Monitoring and Recycle Bin.? * Experience with Oracle Configuration Management.? * Experience with troubleshooting and changing parameters.? * Knowledge of creating and assigning profiles and granting privileges.? * Experience in performing daily DBA activities like creating schemas, users and table spaces management, performing export and import, loading flat file data using SQL loader.? ? Business Skills? * Ability to meet required targets set with quality results regardless of work pressure.? * Punctual, dedicated and very disciplined in work.? * Excellent verbal and written communication skills? * Sets logical and analytical thinking paramount in daily handling of tasks.? * Great team worker and disciplined in little to no supervision job duties.? * Yearning to continue growing in skills in every work environment I am in.? * Strong prioritization skills and ability to meet multiple concurrent deadlines.? * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ? * Available to work in any shift: Yes? * Willing to travel if need arises: Yes? ? Technical skills? ? METHODOLOGIES: SDLC, Agile, Scrum, WATERFALL, EXTREME? ? DATABASES: Oracle (10g, 11g, 12c)? ? Tools/Applications: Oracle enterprise manager, Datapump, Recovery Manager, Database Configuration Assistant, Database Upgrade Assistant, Network Configuration Assistant, Universal Installer, Network Manager, SQL data modeler, SQL developer, Sql*Plus, VMware, Virtual box, Microsoft suites(Excel, Word, Powerpoint)? ? Languages: sql, pl/.sql, tsql? ? Operating System: Windows, Mac OS X, Linux
Sr. SQL Database administrator/Database Architect - Lead:::Sr. SQL Database administrator/Database Architect - Lead Sr. SQL Database administrator/Database Architect - Lead - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Clarksburg, MD - Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. SQL Database administrator/Database Architect - Lead Federal Energy Regulatory Commission - Washington, DC - 2015 to Present  Maintaining database results by setting and enforcing standards and controls.?  Presented reports regarding database expansion by studying plans and requirements; advising senior management; coordinating design and stratergies.?  Keeping senior management informed by preparing reports on system performance and problems.?  Upgrades to hardware and software by assessing transaction processing and database production options.?  Maintaining database performance by troubleshooting problems.?  Planning platform upgrades and improvements by supervising system programming.?  Mentored the team and created a knowledgebase for any prior and potential issues?  Accomplished information systems and organization mission by completing related results as needed.?  Expertise in managing SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012, 2014?  Planning and implementation of SQL 2014 upgrade for all the SQL servers at the agency?  Implemented ETL solutions to ingest energy market data using SSIS to be analyzed using SAS?  Worked with other members of the team troubleshooting and resolving database integrity issues, performance issues, blocking and deadlocking issues, replication issues, log shipping issues, connectivity issues, security issues etc.?  Worked with operations team in Performance Tuning and Query Optimization?  Ability to detect and troubleshoot SQL Server related CPU, memory, I/O, disk space and other resource contention?  Strong knowledge of backups, restores, recovery models, database shrink operations, DBCC commands, Clustering?  Experience with AlwaysON Availability groups, clustering, replication, log shipping, mirroring and storage replication technologies?  Strong knowledge of indexes, index management, integrity checks, configuration, patching?  Worked with SQL Server tools ( Profiler, SSMS, SSIS, PerfMon, system sprocs)?  Working knowledge of Business Intelligence (BI) platforms including SSIS, SSAS and SSRS?  Skill in using analytics, logic and reasoning to troubleshoot issues and find the best solutions to overcome challenges?  Certified SAFe Practitioner Education Master's in presentation and communication College of Information Studies, University of Maryland CP 2006 to 2007 Mckeldin Library University of Maryland CP 2005 to 2006 Skills HTML (1 year), Java (1 year), MS SQL Server (2 years), SQL (2 years), SQL Server (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS? ?  Programming Languages: C, C++, Java?  Operating Systems: XP, Server [?] NT Microsoft Office - Excel, Access, Power Point, Word 2002, 2000, 97?  Tools: Macromedia Dreamweaver, MS Front Page, Adobe Photoshop?  Web Development: .NET, HTML?  Databases: SQL, PL/SQL, Microsoft SQL Server?  2 Factor Authentication
Oracle Database Administrator;Database Administrator Intern:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator - Chaveran Inc Bear, DE - Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Chaveran Inc - Bowie, MD - February 2015 to Present  Collaborate with engineering team members in planning, creating and managing databases required for development, testing, training and production usage.?  Install the RDBMS client and server software & configuration settings, applied patches and migrate databases.?  Provide 24/7 support for all databases including production and non-production environments.?  Perform daily system monitoring activities by performing audits on production systems and databases in order to meet service level agreements.?  Actively monitor Oracle logs including alert, listener and backup log files for errors and warnings.?  Provide optimal database performance by performing constant SQL and Database tuning.?  Initiate Recovery Manager (RMAN) primarily to perform Hot and Cold Backups on archive and no-archive databases, including weekly full and daily incremental backups to disk and tape.?  Leverage Data Pump Export and Import utilities to perform supplemental backup and restore operations as well as schema and data migrations.?  Conduct routine backup testing for database Restorations and Recovery in the event of a disaster.?  Assign privileges, roles, and profiles to database users in order to manage database security.?  Successfully research, plan, test and complete migration of production databases across RDBMS.?  Manage database remodeling and interface development during migration of production databases from MySQL RDBMS to Oracle RDBMS.?  Clone production databases on File System and on Automatic Storage Management (ASM).?  Utilize Monitoring Tools and Scripts to monitor Enterprise wide performance to determine necessary adjustments in order to ensure optimal database performance.?  Provide Technical Support and Q&A to clients regarding database performance issues. Database Administrator Intern Chaveran Inc - Bowie, MD - July 2014 to February 2015  Obtained productive knowledge on installing new versions of the Oracle and MySQL RDBMS software, planning and implementing backup and recovery of oracle databases, as well as performing ongoing tuning of the database instances.?  Managed database security and data integrity by creating new users, roles, profiles and privileges in development, test and production environments.?  Installed and configured oracle on VM Virtual Box for test and development purposes.?  Created and Managed Oracle databases in testing and developmental Environments. Education Bachelor of Science University of Maryland - College Park, MD May 2011 Skills Database (2 years), MySQL (2 years), Oracle (2 years), RMAN (2 years), SQL (2 years) Additional Information  SOFTWARE/APPLICATIONS/UTILITIES: Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN), Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control and Database Console, Oracle Grid Infrastructure (ASM), Data Pump (expdp, impdp), Secure Shell (SSH), Virtual Box (VM), SQL Loader, SQL Developer, MySQL Workbench, SQL_TRACE, TKProf, Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Diagnostic Repository Command Interpreter (ADRCI)?  LANGUAGES: SQL, P/L SQL, Shell, Batch?  RELATIONAL DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: Oracle [?] MySQL? ?  OPERATING SYSTEMS: Windows, Linux/Unix
Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator - US Dept of Labor Laurel, MD - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator US Dept of Labor - Washington, DC - January 2016 to Present Environment: Oracle 11.2.0.3, 10.2.0.5, RHEL 5.5, Sun Solaris 10.0, DataGaurd, RAC, RMAN, OEM, Datapump, AWR, ADDM, ASH, TOAD 11.0.? ?  Worked in an environment comprising 200 databases with the largest databases each of size 5 TB.?  Planning, Implementing and Validating various versions of Oracle Databases to 12c Release & upgrades on all the environments (in a procedural approach Dev, Test, Stage, QA and Production) also Planning of back out procedures like downgrades/building parallel environments and also working on proof of concept for Oracle 12c upgrades.?  Upgrade/Migration of Databases from Oracle 11.2.0.2 to 11.2.0.3.?  Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM?  Implemented Goldengate unidirectional replication on RAC using ACFS file system.?  Implemented 12c Grid control (Multi OMS architecture) on 11.2.0.3 database, Standby OMS architecture is under progress.?  Monitored Goldengate using 12c Goldengate Plugin and also Goldengate Director and shell scripts for alerting GG process down alerts.?  Performed periodic refreshing/cloning of production databases to development & testing databases using RMAN Duplicate database.?  Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).?  Monitoring production database and provide detailed analysis on Long running, Resource consuming SQLs, Wait events, Locks and Alert log file.?  Providing suggestion and workaround to Tune the Bad Performing SQL by giving Index and Stats fixwith the help of Execution plan and Predications?  Monitoring and working in Oracle Golden Gate support activities like new configuration, deployment on existing configuration and Release activities.?  Managing Golden Gate abended, stopped process, errors, alerts and lag alert using golden gate director.?  Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases?  Installation, Configuration of ASM, RAC databases, Adding Services and maintaining GRID control.?  Migrated databases from 9i and 10g to 11g R2 using utilities like export/import, datapump and transportable tablespace.?  Implemented replication on databases using and Golden gate between homogeneous and heterogeneous databases.?  Performed replication between databases using Materialized Views and DB links from a remote database.?  Successfully performed installation, setup and creation of Primary & Standby database using dataguard to deliver no data loss with maximum availability mode.?  Worked closely with application teams for rolling application.?  Performance tuning of Oracle instances?  Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.?  Involved in performing upgradation from Oracle 9i, 10g to Oracle 11.2.0.3 RAC database.?  Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.?  Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.?  Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).?  Achieved optimal performance tuning by using explain plan, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, TKPROF utilities.?  Installation, configuration and maintenance of Physical Standby using OracleData Guard for Disaster recovery process on Oracle 11g, 10g.?  Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.?  Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.?  Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization..?  Performed other Oracle DBA responsibilities performance tuning, monitoring tablespaces, monitoring users, etc. as well as much problem solving.?  Designed Logical and physical database for business transaction functionality.?  Provide production support for the deployed project till it is stabilized.?  Collaborated with the UNIX system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database?  Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.?  Creating database objects Tablespaces, Application Users, Database schemas, profiles, granting privileges and roles, and creating database links. Oracle Database Administrator Honor Health - Phoenix, AZ - June 2012 to December 2015  Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapumpexport/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.?  Ensured that oracle database systems operate securely and efficiently.?  Managing databases from planning and testing stages through implementation and support.?  Performed day to day activities like resolving Tickets for multiple environments, provided Development Support, coordination with development for Application Tuning.?  Worked extensively on monitoring grid control database, configuration of error notifications, installing listeners, and adding them to the grid control.?  Performed conversion Non RAC single instance to Real Application Cluster (RAC) database instances.?  Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.?  Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.?  Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.?  Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.?  Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.?  Provided 24X7support for all the production and development databases.?  Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".?  Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using DatapumpExport/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.?  Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.?  Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.?  Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i/10g to 10gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.?  Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.?  Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.?  Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.?  Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.?  Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.?  Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.?  Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.?  Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.?  Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.? ? Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Education Bachelor of Science in Economic in Economic University of Yaounde II Skills backups (5 years), Database (5 years), databases (5 years), Oracle (5 years), replication (5 years) Additional Information Professional Skills?  Experienced in Performance Tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, and STATSPACK.?  Expert in implementing High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Oracle Data Guard and replication using Streams.?  Proficient in database concepts with rich experience in database design, development and management.?  Excellent knowledge of Oracle architecture, Golden Gate architecture, SQL Performance tuning, SQLT and eager to explore any unknowns.?  Good working knowledge of troubleshooting Infrastructure issues related to Oracle database server such as memory, CPU, I/O, Disk etc.?  Working knowledge of technologies such as Oracle, Oracle Real Application Cluster, Oracle Golden Gate, and Oracle Http Servers.?  Hands-on experience working as Production DBA, working knowledge on SLA metrics and Remedy system and worked with Oracle Support.?  Installed and configured 2, 4, 6 node server side load balancingRAC (Real Application Clusters) databases on HP UNIX and Linux with ASM (Automatic Storage Management) and Data Guard.?  Experience in Upgrade from oracle 10g to 11g and Migration of oracle database from red hat Linux, Window platform to Linux on development, integration and production environment using Oracle Data Migration Assistant.?  Strong Exposure on High Availability Concepts (RAC, Standby), Database Cloning, and Oracle Streams and Oracle Golden gate.?  Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.?  Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10gAutomatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.?  High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance.?  Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot Cloning feature.?  Performed database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, migration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, and cloning on the above said versions.?  Extensively managed users, privileges, profiles, schemas using OracleEnterprise Manager (OEM).?  Configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control (in Oracle 11g, 10g) for the purpose of monitoring multiple databases and application servers.?  Implemented physical standby database for maximum availability using Oracle Data Guard 11g with Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C cloud Control.?  Implementing 10g Data guard with one physical database.?  Experience in configuration and administration of Data Guard (Physical/Logical standby Databases).?  Setup RMAN solutions for all Oracle Databases -- created rman repository, provided best practices, optimizations and data guard and cloning techniques -- restore and recovery.?  Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for switch-over and fail-over purpose.?  Experience in Implementation of High Availability solutions with Oracle 10g &11g RAC, Physical Standby Databases (Data Guard)?  Experience with supporting the Production Database with complete lifecycle including Installations, Upgrade, Patching, Cloning, Backup/Recovery, High Availability including Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) and Data Guard. Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.?  Excellent knowledge in FlashbackRecovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN. Experience in applying patches/ patch sets to the databases.?  Extensively worked on Import/Export and DataPump Import/Export tools.?  Knowledge in configuring ASM (Automatic Storage Management)?  UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.?  Proficient in complete,incomplete recovery of the database, Point in Time Recovery (PITR), and Tablespace Point in Time Recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.?  Expertise in implementing partitioning methodologies (Range partitioning, List partitioning, Hash partitioning, Composite partitioning) on tables and indexes for high performance.?  Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.?  Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.? ? TECHNICAL SKILLS? Databases: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c? Database Tools:? Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Log miner, Statspack/AWR, Shareplex Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Oracle Migration Workbench, ERwin, QDesigner, Remedy? ? Operating Systems: MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX? Hardware:? Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage , Sun Enterprise Servers [?] Sun StorEdge 6320, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers, Compaq Servers [?] HP/UX-9000, Red Hat Linux 6.2
Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Pontiac, MI - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Hilltrust Global Investment - Abuja - June 2007 to February 2017  Install server software?  Configure database server?  Monitor and maintain system health and security?  Design backup process for server and associated data?  Create account for users and assign security levels?  Establish a disaster control protocol?  Provide end-to-end technical support and problem resolution?  Schedule and preform regular maintenance ?  Create database management procedures?  Evaluate data analysis and procedures?  Participate in company?s cross0-training program Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Benson Idahosa University - Edo State September 2002 to July 2006 Skills SQL (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate September 2007 to Present Oracle Certified Professional August 2008 to Present
Database Administration:::Database Administration Thousand Oaks, CA - Willing to relocate Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administration U.S. Navy - Point Mugu, CA - September 2014 to Present I have worked as a data analyst and system administer for the U.S. Navy for 3 years. While working here I have accomplished what few have done. I have won sailor of year for my squadron as well as my whole battle group just proving my meticulous attention to detail and my dedication to my job. No task is to small and no task is accomplishable, I have worked in tight timelines as well as long drawn out projects. Over all I am not a self preservation type of man, it isn't a single man who gets things done. What I do is always about the bigger picture and the team. Skills Microsoft Word/Excel/Power Point (3 years) Military Service Service Country: United States Branch: Navy Rank: E-4 September 2014 to Present Commendations: VAW-113 Sailor of the Year 2016, CAG 2 Sailor of the Year 2016, VAW-113 Plane Captain of the Year 2016, 2 x Naval and Marine Corps Achievement Medals.
Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle database administrator;Database Administrator:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator Chicago, IL - To pursue a challenging career in a growing organization which will utilize my skills and enable me to further improve and contribute to the growth and success of the organization. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator PNC Bank, Pittsburg, PA - November 2013 to January 2016 Description:? PNC offers a wide range of services for all our customers, from individuals and small businesses, to corporations and government entities. PNC is in the top five syndicators of middle market loan transactions for each of the last five years. In depositing, lending, cash management and investment services to more than 6 million consumer and small business customers across 19 states and the District of Columbia.? ? Responsibilities:?  24x7 Production database administrations, support and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution of database issues.?  Used cross platform transportable table space (TTS) to transport Tablespaces across platforms.?  Schemas refresh using Export/Import Pump, Creating the database table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges. and user logins.?  Managing of user's privileges and roles.?  Diagnosed and improved database performance to prevent and isolate, or recover from database degradation and failure.?  Performed Setup Recovery Manager (RMAN) and Flash Recovery in RAC Environment.?  Implemented backup strategies using hot/cold, exp/imp used on the business req.?  Monitoring and tuning using tools like Enterprise Manager GRID, Oracle cost Based optimizer (CBO), SQL analyzer, automatic checkpoint tuning, SQL Advisors, Performance Manager.?  Performed conversion single instance to Real Application Cluster (RAC) database instances.?  Storage Management Managing Space, Table spaces, Segments and Extents, Rollback Segments & Data Dictionary.?  Experienced on Database Security by monitoring User Management, Privileges, Roles, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication and Risk management.?  Unix Shell scripting in csh, ksh for automating startup/shutdown, backup and recovery, Import and export procedure of databases, getting system alerts.?  Experienced in documentation, provided documentation for database design, analysis, modifications, creating schemas etc.? ? Environment: Red Hat Linux5, Windows, Oracle, Enterprise Manager GRID, RUP, RMAN, SAN/NAS, ASM, RAC, Golden Gate, Streams, CDC, Data Guard, SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, ASM, ToadV9.7 & SQL, Navigator V6.1. Oracle database administrator Nokia location and commerce - Chicago, IL - August 2009 to September 2013 Description:? Nokia Location and commerce also known as Nokia Here was an American Chicago-based provider of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) data and a major provider of base electronic navigable maps. They build high-definition (HD) maps and combine them with cloud technology to help you and your business navigate a complex world with personalized solutions.? ? Responsibilities:?  Performed day to day activities such as managing user privileges, table spaces, file system, undo segments, temp? segments and indexing.?  Migrated single instance database to multiple instance database (RAC) using export/import, datapump.?  Created Partitions on large tables for easier manageability.?  Installing and configuring Recovery Manager (RMAN).?  Checking of Alert log and Trace files to monitor the database on a daily basis.?  Storage Management Managing Space, Table spaces, Segments and Extents, Rollback Segments & Data Dictionary.?  Cloning databases using scripts as well as RMAN.?  Assisting customer setup, tune and maintain Oracle database.?  Deciding the naming conventions of data file, redo log files, table spaces, and segments.?  Writing scripts for backup and recovery, Import and export procedure.?  On call support 24/7.?  Assisted in the transition from 10g to 11g, installed and configured oracle 11g.? ? Environment: Linux and Solaris, UNIX, Oracle 11g and 10g, TOAD 9.7.2, RMAN, SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, SQL*Loader, DBArtisian 8.7, MS Visio 2010, Oracle BI Publisher, SAP BI/BO, RAC and Data Guard, Golden Gate, WINDOWS and Siebel 8. Database Administrator Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh - August 2008 to July 2009 Description:? Dotsoft is a commercial application developed by BSNL Core Group, Andhra Pradesh for the purpose of automation of various activities performed by the BSNL like generation of bills, generating of advice note for new connection and for working connection, raising of refund order for the close connection, etc. The present Dotsoft applications have been implemented on Linux and Oracle 9i, supporting 245 GB of database and more than 450 users. Dotsoft application includes Commercial, TRA, and Billing Package and Fault Recognition system.? ? Responsibilities:?  Oracle Configuration. Oracle Tuning. Oracle Patch Administration.?  Coordinating Backup and Recovery operations over all databases, ensuring 100% recoverability.?  Performing Daily, Weekly and Monthly Oracle monitoring and maintenance tasks.?  Wrote Stored Procedures according to specs and control files for input to SQL*Loader utilities for loading data from external files into the Oracle database.?  Planning, Installation and Configuration of Oracle Database on the Server.?  Creation of Table space, Data files, Indexes, Rollback Segment and monitoring them.?  Creation of Users and Granting them privileges and roles.?  Performed Database Tuning. Performed Database Security and Integrity.?  Wrote extensive Sub Queries, PL/SQL procedures, functions, database triggers and packages.?  Responsible for writing database programming to Store/Retrieve the information from the database using SQL.?  Designing and creating schema objects like Database tables, indexes, views, synonyms, and all schema objects in Oracle.?  Writing Pl/SQL procedures and functions. Writing shell scripts to automate the data loading.?  Monitoring the data loading jobs and tuning the SQL queries.? ? Environment: Oracle 8i, SQL Server 2000, UNIX (Sun Solaris), Windows (NT/2000/Advanced Server), TOAD, OEM, SQL*PLUS, Explain Plan, UNIX Shell Scripting, Quest software tools, PL/SQL navigator. Education Bachelor of Science in Biology Chicago State University - Chicago, IL 2015 Certifications/Licenses Oracle database 11g SQL fundamentals Oracle Certified Associate Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS? ? Operating Systems: Linux, Open Suse 11.1 and Windows.? Database: RDBMS, Oracle 11g.? Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, and UNIX Shell Scripting.? DB Management: TOAD 9.5, DB Artisan, SQL Developer and Enterprise Manager grid.? Tool/Utilities: RMAN, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Oracle Management Service (OMS), SQL*Loader, ASM,? Export/Import, ODBC, DBUA, DBCA, putty, ImpExp32, Grid Control, Data pump,? Data guard, VERITAS Net Backup and MS Access.? Tuning Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR and ADDM? Database: Oracle 10g/11g? Hardware: Sun Fire 15K, Sun Fire 6800, Sun V480, V240, Sun Enterprise 6500 / 450, HP XP256 / XP512, IBM? Platforms C server p5 model 590, and various PC desktop and servers.
Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Terhathum - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Work Experience Database Administrator DMEGA - Terhathum Education Bachelor's in Economics Myanglung - Terhathum, Nepal
Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator - Wellcare Health Plans Hanover, PA - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Wellcare Health Plans - Tampa, FL - January 2014 to Present  Involved with OLTP relational databases system analysis, design, implementation and management.?  Upgrade/Migration of Databases from Oracle 10g to 11g, Cross platform migration from different platforms.?  Installation, configuration, maintenance and tuning of Oracle RDBMS 10g -12c in Production,? QA, and Test environments as well as 10g Forms and Reports and 10g-11g Application Suite.?  Oracle Database Upgrades 10g to 11g, 11g and 11gr2 to 12c.? ? Oracle Database Administrator? (443) 929-7986 | nsahjude@gmail.com? ? 3? ?  Migrating and consolidation of 11g databases into 12c in both QA and Production? environments.?  Installation and consolidation of 12c multitenant database's in QA and Test environments.? Container and Pluggable database administration and cloning.?  Troubleshooting Space Management & User accounts and privilege issues while coordinating with Unix and application teams.?  Performed proactive database maintenance procedures to ensure optimal performance? and uptime and implemented shell scripts for automation of day to day activities.?  Identify Top SQL that are consuming heavy resources and provide support to the development team in identifying SQL queries that are consuming high resources and? interact with the development team to see if these queries can be fine-tuned further.?  Regular Security Patching and Critical patch Updates (CPU) and Patch set updates? (PSU) on Oracle databases and interim patches for various bug fixes on database? products.?  Production support for Oracle database 10g/11g RAC.?  Monitoring space, wait events, locks and long operations running on the database?  Monitoring the session waits for the database performance and resolving the performance issues.?  Monitoring the database for growth and added space to the table spaces as per demand.?  Generating AWR reports on regular basis to identify the database performance at peak? load.?  Tuning the SQL statement by analyzing the explain plan and ADDM reports?  Implemented scripts to monitor and get information on free space, alert log errors Provided? maintenance of user accounts, privileges, profiles and roles.?  Upgrades, patching, and off-hours maintenance and change control execution in production? 24/7 environments and hosting facilities using Remote desktop connection or Putty in conjunction with RSA -VPN.?  Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.?  Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.?  Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.?  Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions,? cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.?  Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management? of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.?  Used Data Pump for export and import. Wrote scripts for Backup of databases, maintenance? of archive logs for databases. Streamlined backup procedures and implemented RMAN for backup and disaster recovery.?  Created logical and physical design installed and upgraded databases.?  Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.? ? Environment: Oracle 10g/11g and 12c VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux,? TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Oracle Database Administrator TIAA - Charlotte, NC - 2011 to December 2013 Oracle Database Administrator? (443) 929-7986 | nsahjude@gmail.com? ? 4? ?  Extensively worked in various areas of Data guard i.e. Installation, Recovery, RTA (Real? Time Apply), Patching, Tuning, Switchover, Switchback and Failover.?  Implemented and configured 11g grid control on RHEL.?  Performed Logical backup of critical application databases using EXPDP/IMPDP with a scheduled jobs (Cron Job).?  Responsible for creating RMAN catalog Database and Registering the Databases in Catalog Database and Cloned production RAC instances to development and QA? systems using RMAN duplication.?  Experience in using 11g features such as Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, ASM, AWR,? and ADDM.?  Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication and monitored? them using Grid Control.?  Automated the Data Replication process using Materialized Views for reporting databases.?  Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database? and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.?  Generated and automated AWR reports from Oracle 10g and 11g database and analyzed? the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, table space growth, and database growth.?  Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to ERP jobs,? time/CPU consuming queries.?  Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes, identifying the join? methods (Nested/Hash/Merge join/Sort merge join) between the row sources for tables, to improve the performance of SQL statements.?  Addressed developers/testers requests to clone production databases for the purposes of? testing using RMAN. Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database? using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.?  Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned? maintenance activities.?  Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re- organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.?  Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g/11g environments.?  Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.?  Used TOAD for database management.?  Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.?  24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.?  Installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle 10g/11g Real Application Clusters? (RAC).?  Implement Grid based monitoring solution for large Databases and Installation of Cluster ware, configuring public, private and VIP.? ? Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, RHEL 5.2, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR,? ADDM, SQL* Plus , SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. Education Bachelor's degree in Law in Law University of Yaounde II Associate of Arts Community College of Baltimore County Skills cloning. (6 years), Database (6 years), Database Administrator. (6 years), databases (6 years), OEM. (6 years) Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY?  Excellent experience in managing large-scale OLTP databases 5+TB size in HA and DR setup.?  Managed 11+ TB Oracle 10g & 11g databases in Data warehousing environment.?  Solid experience in oracle database migration, upgrades, applying patch sets, code reviews,? database release and deployments and data center consolidation activities. Proficient with Database? Cloning, Migration, and Patching of Oracle Databases.?  Installed Oracle 11g with ASM and OCFS2 File systems.?  Highly experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting.? o Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, SQL TRACE. Applying? patches under UNIX platform.?  Supported 400+ databases including RAC production database, a Data warehouse database and? a lot of Development and Test databases and upgraded from 10g to 11g.?  Provided Production & test environment support while coordinating with Unix Team and storage? team to configure the OS infrastructure for Oracle Databases.?  Worked on setting up/installation and configuration of release 11g R2 RAC with ASM and Raw Devices? and 11g CRS on IBM AIX 6.1.?  Performed conversion of Single Node Instance to multi node RAC with ASM, and adding instance? to existing RAC.?  Installed and configured 3 node oracle 11gR2 RAC for production environment.?  Installed 12c Databases and responsible for upgrading Oracle 10g RAC to 11g RAC.?  Involved in Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting Golden Gate? EXTRACT and REPLICATE issues.?  Experience in installation of Oracle RAC with ASM and manage RAC instance using Crsctl and? Svrctl utility.?  Involved in migrating production databases single instance to RAC environment.?  Planned and Implemented Disaster Recovery (DR) and HA using RAC, Data Guard.?  Experience in configuring, managing and monitoring both Physical standby and Logical standby? database using Data Guard and Have hands on experience on Active Dataguard.?  Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration? and logical backup of database.?  Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set? Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".?  Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using? Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 12c) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across? Oracle databases.?  Worked with EXP/IMP, EXPDP/IMPDP to refresh the schemas and databases?  Database Performance Tuning Diagnosing using AWR (Automated Workload Repository) / Stats? pack and ASH (Active Session History) reports, ADDM (Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor)? analysis.?  Proactive database monitoring via automatic Email and Text alerts of Alert.log, Listerner.log and? Space errors to DBA cell phone?  Experience in Upgrading databases, applying patches.? ? JUDE THADDEUS N NSAH? Oracle Database Administrator? (443) [?] | nsahjude@gmail.com? ? 2? ?  Managing Security Management, Schema Management, Instance Management, Storage/Space? Management.?  Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.?  Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace,? TKPROF, AWR and Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC)?  Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues. Proficient in performance tuning using? Explain Plan, STATSPACK, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM.?  Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Tuning, I/O Tuning)?  Expertise in Performing Tuning Database - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL? Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular? performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, SQLTrace, TKPROF.?  Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to? ensure business continuity.?  Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.?  Checking and resolving Database corruptions using DBVERIFY utility. Configured Manager, Replicate? and Extract processes and implemented unidirectional, bidirectional replication using Oracle 11g? Golden Gate on RHEL 5 platform.?  UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell? scripting, CRON jobs.? ? TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES:? Tuning Tools:? TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, and ADDM.? Tools and Utilities:? RMAN, OEM, SQL Loader, EXP, IMP, Data pump, TOAD.? RDBMS:? Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c? Operating Systems:? HP-UX 10.x, 11.x, 12c Sun RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise
Database Administrator/Quality Assurance;Database Administrator:::Database Administrator/Quality Assurance Virginia Beach, VA - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator/Quality Assurance United States Navy. - April 2008 to Present Currently DBA for Open source/Microsoft server application to update, track, inventory and manage aircraft support equipment. Overall supervisor for Aircraft Support Equipment Program Quality Assurance and Planned Maintenance Systems Supervisor. Database Administrator U.S. Navy - Norfolk, VA - April 2008 to Present Currently database Administrator for open source/windows translated application to track, update and manage logistics and unscheduled/scheduled maintenance and inventory for aircraft support equipment. Supervisor for Production Control Division responsible for management and assistant oversight for workflow and compliance with policy. Education GED Skills Microsoft Office. Word, excel, access etc (9 years) Military Service Service Country: United States Branch: Navy Rank: E5 April 2008 to Present 9+ years of military service. Engaged and detail oriented leader. Focused and determined. Typically works over time Commendations: Navy and Marine Corps Achievment Medal for outstanding performance in Quality Assurance Division Certifications/Licenses Continuous Process Improvement Green Belt Trained February 2015 to Present Green belt trained for Lean Six Sigma/CPI
Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator:::Oracle Database Administrator Laurel, MD - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator InfoSpan Inc -- Vital Network & Database Systems (Contractor) - Silver Spring, MD - March 2014 to Present Silver Spring, Maryland? ?  Installing and upgrading Oracle binaries & application tools, applying patches, bug fixes, security updates, perform monthly or quarterly database/system maintenance, configuration and administration of Oracle databases. Upgrades from 11g to 12c?  Involved in capacity planning of databases and their host machines (database storage, memory, CPU, network usage, and I/O contention) in a complex Architecture layout to include both standalone and clustered environments?  Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c Cloud Control?  Use database tools such as STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL TRACE, TKPROOF, AWR and ADDM to evaluate database performance, gather statistics, resolve performance related issues, and generate report.?  Developed and managed PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Packages used by the database instance.?  Evaluation and implementation of alert monitors, implementing database security using standard/fine auditing.?  Create Knowledge based containing database structure, changes common issues and resolutions?  Creates and implemented various table partitions for large tables?  Created and tuned various materialized views?  Schedule jobs using various Oracle tools such as Oracle OEM, DBMS JOBS, SCHEDULER?  Automated hot backup using a combination of incremental, differential and full RMAN backups.?  Use Datapump to export data from production Database to test Database.?  Provide 24x7 database support Developed hot, cold and logical backup scripts to automate the backup procedures?  Provide on-call support in adherence to specific business and customer Service Level Agreements?  Created Testing and Development databases following OFA compliance rules.?  Performing Complete Media Recovery of Database depends on the nature of failure.?  Configure and implement the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) for cold and hot backup to the databases?  Provide database administration on production, testing and development database servers.?  Performed series of database refreshes from production to test.?  Loaded data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables?  Regular Monitoring Alert log Files and trace files on Day to Day Basis.?  Identifying and removing Fragmentation, row migration/chaining of database objects.?  Analyzing the Tables and Indexes on performance base regularly?  Configured, Managed and Troubleshoot Data Guard using Data Guard broker.?  Troubleshoot and resolved log gap in Data Guard Configuration.?  Configured Oracle Advance Security for data encryption?  Manage several 2 nodes RAC database on Linux.?  Managed 11gR2 Grid Infrastructure i.e. ASM, CLUSTERWARE?  All RAC databases managed are on ASM storage.?  Managed RAC database on Production, Test and Development database.?  24/7 database support.?  Managed RAC database using CRSCTL, SRVCTL and Grid Control?  Application of CPU critical patch on RAC database in rolling manner? Configured and managed multiple replication methods including transactional, snapshot replication and also other high availability solutions like mirroring, and log shipping. ?  Defined relationship between tables and enforced the referential integrity constraints ?  Troubleshoot query performance issues, fine-tuning of databases and index Analysis.?  Install, configured, troubleshoot and Replicate Using PostgreSQL Database.?  Review all PostgreSQL logs for problems. Oracle Database Administrator InfoSpan Inc -- Capital Blue Cross (Contractor) - Harrisburg, PA - April 2012 to January 2014  Responsible for installing Oracle Database, setup Instance Creation, Database Space Management.?  Installed patches and upgrades for various bugs.?  Implemented traditional Hot and Cold Backups & Recovery.? Writing new T-SQL queries. ?  Tuning existing T-SQL queries to improve performance. ?  Performed performance testing on stored procedures, indexes, and triggers. ?  Developed Reports for different purposes using SSRS and Report Builder ?  Created Databases and Database Objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers, Rules, Defaults, User Defined Data Types and Functions ?  Use custom scripts so as to help automate routine tasks such as Maintain operators, Alerts, Notifications, Jobs, Job Steps and Schedules ?  Developed Database Backup Scripts and automated this process/tasks using SQL Server Agent Service ?  Transferring Jobs and Logins using SSIS from SQL server 2005 to 2008. ?  Successfully implemented Database Mirroring in SQL Server 2005 and 2008 for High Availability. ?  Configured transactional replication between OLTP server and report server. ?  Performed various disaster scenarios and also documented the recovery steps. ?  Used Windows Performance monitor and SQL Profiler to optimize queries, resolve deadlock issues and enhance the performance of database servers?  Distributed the data in different Tablespaces by table partitioning to get the high performance and I/O balancing.?  Performance tuning of Database, SQL queries.?  Performed Export/Import and full database scanning.?  Monitoring and resizing tablespace relocating data files for better disk I/O.?  Maintained standby databases for production and staging environments.?  Created roles and users and Managed there privileges.?  Responsible for monitoring & resizing Oracle database objects tablespaces, Tables, and Indexes etc.?  Responsible for managing Redo logs, Archive logs, Data files.?  Troubleshooting of the database.?  Documented the problems and solution in the failures of production databases?  Successfully created 3 nodes RAC database to 3 nodes RAC Physical Standby database for high available and disaster recovery.?  Upgraded from Oracle 11.2.0.5 to 11.2.0.7 in a recent project.?  Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.?  Performed Database upgrade from Oracle Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and Oracle 11g (11.2.0.3).?  Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.?  Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.?  Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM. Oracle Database Administrator InfoSpan Inc -- Aderas (Contractor) - Reston, VA - November 2010 to January 2012  Managed in-house Oracle Databases running on various operating systems like Windows NT and Linux.?  Installation of Oracle Database and Oracle products.?  Implementing Backup/Recovery Strategies.?  Using Enterprise Backup utilities for backup.?  Writing scripts for backup and recovery.?  System tuning for better performance.?  Creating users and maintaining database security.?  Worked with application developer to debug PL/SQL procedure, tune queries and database sizing.?  Designing and enforcing standards and naming conventions.?  Co-coordinated, and delivered Oracle courses such as Database Administration, database security, enterprise?  Backup and recovery solutions, PL/SQL concepts.?  Writing UNIX shell scripts for backup and recovery.?  Supervised the installation and configuration of Oracle databases on Linux and Windows NT?  Writing SQL scripts to monitor database performance.?  Writing SQL Loader control files for data loading to the payroll system.?  Problem trouble shooting and resolution.?  Database installation and instance creation.?  Database tuning, backup and recovery and general day to day running of the system.?  Created and managed user, table spaces, data files and archive log.?  Performance Tuned and optimized SQL Query, SGA, and Disk I/O using Oracle Enterprise Manager and by monitoring the Stats pack report generated from snapshots.?  Applied client patches and other patches as required.?  Troubleshot Database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM). Tuned database for optimum performance.?  Utilized Oracle Public and Private Database Link.?  Managed auditing and security with Oracle Databases Education BS in Computer Science University of Lagos - Lagos, NG September 2002 to July 2006 Oracle Database Administartor Boltos Solution - Laurel, MD Skills databases. (7 years), OEM (7 years), Oracle (7 years), RMAN (7 years), SQL (6 years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFILE? Relational Databases: Oracle [?] Microsoft SQL Server? Operating Systems: Windows 10/8/7/XP, Linux (various distros), Windows Server [?] Red Hat Linux VMWare/Vcenter, Mac OS? Networking Topologies and Protocols: Ethernet, TCP/IP? Programming Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*PLUS, Shell? Hardware: Intel Machines, HP, Sun and Dec Alpha? Software Applications/Tools and Utilities:? OEM, RMAN, TOAD, TKPROF, STATSPACK, REPLICATION, DATA MIGRATION-EXPORT-IMPORT, PROCEDURES, PACKAGES & FUNCTIONS-BACKUP &RECOVERY PERFORMANCE TUNING-SQL-LOADER-REAL APPLICATION CLUSTERS (RAC), DATAGUARD, RMAN BACKUP, AWR, ADDM, NETCA, NETMGR, DBCA, DBUA
SQL Database Administrator;SQL Database Administrator:::SQL Database Administrator SQL Database Administrator - TRW /ZF - Highly motivated team player, adapt at multi-tasking and thrives in a fast paced environment, close to 4years track record of experience in SQL Server database administration, with core experience in the following areas:? ?  Data Migration?  Database Performance tuning?  Backup and Recovery?  Disaster Recovery?  Database Security?  Database upgrades?  High Availability Solutions?  Integration Services?  Database Replication Work Experience SQL Database Administrator TRW /ZF - 2015 to Present SQL Database Administrator ACCESS BANK NIGERIA - 2011 to 2013 Education Bsc in Sociology LAGOS STATE UNIVERSITY Skills best practices (Less than 1 year), capacity planning (Less than 1 year), Database (5 years), database administration (Less than 1 year), SQL (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL SETS:? RDBMS: SQL 2008 and SQL [?] SQL 2012? OPERATING SYSTEM: Windows 2000 and Windows 2003 and windows 2008r2? ? PRODUCTION SURPPORT:?  Experience with implementation of disaster recovery (DR) and strategy planning.?  Experience with setup and administration of SQL Server Database Security environments using Profiles, database Privileges and Roles.?  Provide SQL Server database physical model creation and implementation (data type, indexing, table design)?  Monitored database server performance and if required go for tuning of the TSQL queries, Stored procedures etc.?  Experience in creating SSIS packages to automate the Import and Export of data to and from using SSIS tools like Import and Export Wizard?  Complied with standard security-related procedures that are based on established best practices and conformity to company policy?  Database administration including installation, configuration, upgrades, capacity planning, performance tuning, backup and recovery in managing clusters of SQL servers?  Experience with database upgrades and applying service packs?  Experience in creating, monitoring, backup, recovery and tuning SQL Server databases in a multi-platform environment?  SQL Server Replication?  Flexible, enthusiastic and project oriented team player with solid communication and leadership skills to develop creative solution for challenging client needs.
Senior Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator:::Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle Database Administrator - Jelani Consulting LLC Washington, DC - Highly Accomplished Oracle-certified DBA with expertise in back up recovery, crisis management, and high availability to increase reliability, maximize productivity, and introduce system efficiencies. Successful 7+ year track record of expanded experience in testing and supporting next-generation database solutions in Oracle Enterprise, Linux and SQL Server environments. Remarkably organized, take charge professional repeatedly successful in navigating complex technical environments, and possess strong PL/SQL expertise in stored procedures, performance tuning and optimization. Transcend ongoing deadlines in fast-paced environments, grasp multiple assignments synchronously and coordinate results with key associates in cross-functional groups. Willing to relocate to: Washington, DC - Virginia - Maryland Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator Jelani Consulting LLC - July 2015 to Present  Planned and implemented Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.?  Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration?  Extensively used Grid Control and set up Rules for alert notification and scheduled RMAN backups with Failure notification?  Applied security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".?  Implemented Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, Indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics for the same.?  Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning oracle contention and monitored production database using Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and Automatic Session History (ASH).?  Implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.?  Completely eliminated space errors by implementing proactive space monitoring and effective space allocation. Oracle Database Administrator Federal Depository Insurance Corporation - July 2013 to July 2015  Performed monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.?  Established automation of repetitive processes to minimize errors?  Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7?  Greatly improved performance in daily transforms by identifying and reorganizing indexes on major tables.?  Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.?  Refreshed schema using Export/Import. Created the database, table space, tables, indexes, set privileges and user logins.?  Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.?  Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.?  Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.?  Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).?  Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.. Oracle Database Administrator Government Publishing Office - March 2008 to July 2013  Installed oracle database software 10.2.0.1 and 11.1.0.6.0 using oracle universal installer on development, test and production server for their claim, policy and online applications in IBM AIX 5.3 environment.?  Applied patch set to upgrade software and use database upgrade assistant, export/ import and manual scripts to upgrade databases.?  Formulated recommendations about optimal storage configurations for senior management?  Exported and imported data using export/ import utilities; performed migration from 9.2.0.1 to 9.2.0.6?  Database performance tuning using AWR, ADDM, ASH, SQL tuning advisor, explain plan, statistics, blocking sessions, STATSPACK, TKPROF, SQL query restructure and SQL trace.?  Scheduled cronjob for daily night hot/online backup of production databases on tape using RMAN scripts.?  Refresh or restore development, test and reporting databases from production database backup using RMAN scripts or export/ Import and data pump utility.?  Created physical standby database on remote server to provide high availability. Education Computer Information Systems Benedict College Skills Database (9 years), OEM (2 years), Oracle (9 years), security (4 years), SQL (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Database 11g: SQL Fundamentals Oracle Certified Associate Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:? ?  Red Hat Linux RHEL 6.x and Windows XP?  RDBMS - Oracle 10g/11g and 12c?  Experience with various tools, such as SQL*Plus, Data Pump, SQL*Loader, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Recovery Manager, and Oracle Secure Backup.?  User management, creation, monitoring and administration of database users; altering passwords and granting/revoking access to system/object privileges, roles and auditing user actions.?  Monitoring & Reorganization of Tablespaces/Tables/Indexes.?  Skilled in designing and implementing complete life cycle client servers and database applications with various development tools and languages.?  In-depth understanding of security and backup procedures to ensure database integrity.?  Experienced in data encryption using Oracle TDE to protect the organization's critical information and exceeding the industry standard.? ? PERSONAL SKILLS?  High personal motivation, self-management, dependable, and enthusiastic.?  Excellent working under pressure?  Very detail oriented.?  Excellent leadership abilities / Team Oriented?  Strong oral and written communication skills?  Ability to learn new technology (Tech Refresh), methodology, and work routines quickly.
Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator - US Department of State Forestville, MD - Integrity | Accountability | Excellence? ? An accomplished database administrator (DBA) with 5 years of experience in testing, and supporting next-generation database solutions in Oracle Enterprise and SQL Server environments. Exceptional written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities. Highly motivational style, results-oriented, and culturally competent. Excellent track record for identifying opportunities for accelerated growth; dedicated team player who listen, thrives on collaborating with diversely talented team members, and integrates their divergent thoughts, opinions, and perspectives into meaningful action; energetic, competitive achiever who can manage multiple priorities and perform under pressure in a fast-paced, rapidly changing environment. Takes pride in providing the best customer care thorough knowledge of policies, and procedures in combination with excellent managerial skills. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator US Department of State - Washington, DC - September 2014 to Present  Performs ongoing tuning of the database?  Creates and maintains all databases required for development, testing, and production usage.?  Plans and implements backup and recovery of the Oracle database.?  Performs the capacity planning required to create and maintain databases.?  Proficient in Database Administration activities such as Upgrades, Patches, TAR support, Performance Tuning, capacity planning, script development, and documentation.?  Performs DB patching, cloning, troubleshoot issues/errors/incidents, Collaborate with Oracle support for bugs & issues resolutions and personal research.?  Hands on experience with Installation, Configuration, Migrations, Oracle Data Guard, Backup and Recovery using RMAN, Disaster Recovery and Patching Oracle Databases on Oracle 11g Database Administrator Jelani Consulting - Greenbelt, MD - May 2012 to September 2014  Performed ongoing tuning of the database?  Created and maintains all databases required for development, testing, education, and production usage.?  Planned and implements backup and recovery of the Oracle database?  Provided a strategic database direction for the organization?  Installed new versions of the Oracle RDBMS and its tools and any other tools that access the Oracle database?  Performed the capacity planning required to create and maintain databases Education Bachelors of Science in Pre-Med Howard University May 2014 Skills cloning (2 years), Database (5 years), databases (5 years), Oracle (5 years), RMAN (2 years) Additional Information  Skilled in designing and implementing complete life cycle client servers and database applications with various development tools and languages.?  In-depth understanding of security and backup procedures to ensure database integrity.?  Experienced in data encryption using Oracle TDE to protect the organization's critical information and exceeding the industry standard.?  Experience with various tools, such as SQL*Plus, Data Pump, SQL*Loader, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Recovery Manager, and Oracle Secure Backup.?  User management, creation, monitoring and administration of database users; altering passwords and granting/revoking access to system/object privileges, roles and auditing user actions.?  Monitoring & Reorganization of Table spaces/Tables/Indexes.? ? Technical Expertise? ? Operating Systems - Linux, RHEL 5.4/6? Database Management - OEM 9.2/10G [?] Grid Control (RAC), RAT? Databases - Oracle 11g, 10g, 9i, SQL Server 2005, 2008? Tuning/Monitoring - RAC 11gR1,/R2, RAC 10gR2, Data-Guard [?] DB? Cloning, Standby Databases, RMAN [?] EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK? Tools/Utilities - RMAN, OEM Oracle Management Server, SQL *Loader, SQL? *Plus, SQL Server, Export/Import, Data Pump, Query Builder, Oracle Streams, PuTTY
Senior Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator Consultant;Database Administrator:::Senior Database Administrator Senior Database Administrator - FIS West Valley City, UT - Database Administrator with 10 + years of experience in the Information Technology? Industry. Major strengths in Database Administration, MSSQL (SSRS, SSIS, SSMS) . Additional skills in problem solving, team leadership .and Project management. Proficient in the use of most Microsoft products (Access, Excel, Word etc.) as well as many database management tools (MS SQL Management Studio, DB Artisan Toad) and many other third party products used in system and Database Administration. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Administrator FIS - 2015 to Present Fidelity Information Services, formerly Sungard) Florida\Utah? Responsible for developing, implementing database policies and procedures to ensure the integrity and availability of databases in the highly regulated environment of finance and compliance. Duties include, upgrade, tune, and maintain production/test databases while ensuring high levels of data availability, primarily on MSSQL, 2008 - 2016 and Sybase ASE in a highly virtualized environment Support and troubleshoot issues on a worldwide network.? Participate in DR (disaster recovery) tests24 X7 on call to resolve critical? production database issues. Database Administrator Royal Bank of Scotland - Taylorsville, UT - 2010 to 2015 Duties include install, monitor, tune, and maintain production databases while ensuring? high levels of data availability, primarily on MSSQL, 2005, 2008, 2012 and Sybase ASE? systems Responsible for developing, implementing database policies and procedures to ensure the integrity and availability of databases .in the highly regulated environment of? international banking. Support and troubleshoot issues on a world wide network,? participate in bi-annual DR (disaster recovery) tests. 24 X7 on call to resolve critical? production database issues. Database Administrator Zions Bank - Salt Lake City, UT - 2008 to 2010 Duties include install, monitor, and maintain production databases while ensuring high Database Administrator data2logistics - Murray, UT - 2005 to 2008 Duties include design, install, monitor, maintain, and performance tune production? databases. Responsible for developing, implementing, and overseeing database? policies and procedures to ensure the integrity and availability of databases and their? accompanying software. On call 24X7 to resolve critical production database issues.? Assess and develop long-term team goals Create models for new database? development and/or changes to existing ones. Respond to and resolve database? access and performance issues. Database Administrator IBM - Salt Lake City, UT - 2005 to 2007 Phoenix, Arizona? Worked in database design, performance and tuning, fault tolerance and data storage? solutions. Primarily responsible for fault tolerance and disaster recovery solutions, on various platforms and database systems. Sybase, Microsoft SQL and Oracle systems.? Responsible for monitoring systems analysing alarms and assisting in disaster recovery? situations. Responsible for reviewing and implementing schema changes in IBM. Database Administrator Consultant Beach Consulting - West Valley City, UT - 2003 to 2005 Consulting with various companies (Bank of America, Affiliated Computer Systems, Las? Vegas Review Journal, others) consulted in database design, performance and tuning,? fault tolerance and data storage solutions. Primarily responsible for creating and tuning? Microsoft SQL jobs and DTS packages. Worked on various platforms and database? management systems Sybase, Microsoft SQL and Oracle systems. Database Administrator Micron Technology Inc - Lehi, UT - 1998 to 2003 Duties included maintaining extremely large databases on various platforms.? Troubleshooting problems with systems in extremely time critical situations.? Responsible for database replication schemes over a wide area network. Database? modelling, implementation and maintenance of servers. . Achievements. Instrumental? in bringing up a completely new system at a new manufacturing facility. Converted an existing overseas manufacturing facility to a new system with little or no downtie.? Taught several UNIX and Sybase ASE classes. Education Associates Degree Community College of the Air Force - Maxwell AFB, AL 1985 to 1993 Skills Database Management (10+ years), Database Administration (10+ years), Unix Administration (4 years) Military Service Service Country: United States Branch: USAF Rank: sergeant May 1985 to May 1993 Service in the USAF in various locations both inside the United States and overseas Commendations: several , good conduct, achievement American defense , long tour overseas, marksmanship, outstanding unit
SQL Analyst;Database Administrator;Database Manager;Database Administrator/Membership:::SQL Analyst SQL Analyst - Hyatt Omaha, NE - and Core Competencies? ? Database professional eager to build on experience and education with a well established organization in a stable environment that will lead to a lasting relationship.? Highly organized, efficient and skilled in a variety of tasks, including:? * Records & Database Management? * C, C+, Visual Basic, MS Access, SQL? * MS Windows 2000 Server, MS Excel, MS Word, Windows Server 2012? * Coding, testing and implementing databases? * SharePoint 2013? * Troubleshooting? ? * Design of logical and physical databases? * User support, and hardware support? * Microsoft SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008R2, 2012 and 2014? * DBVisualizer Work Experience SQL Analyst Hyatt - Omaha, NE - 2015 to Present SQL database administration and SQL development including database performance, maintenance, stored procedures, and security. Excellent troubleshooting skills. Work with SSRS creating complex reports, as well as SSIS to complete a variety of tasks.? Results:? * Created a report for the global contact centers with important hotel related stats, including calls, reservations, and revenue from various data sources.? * Helped set up a new SharePoint site to connect the agents with report and information they need, as well as connecting to global contact centers.? * Set up ODBC connections to a variety of different data sources including, PostGreSQL, DB2, and Informix.? * Excelled within deadline-intensive environment, ensuring the accurate and on-time completion of all projects.? * Roles included: Database Administrator, SQL Developer, Report writer, SharePoint Administration and Development. Database Administrator COR Clearing - Omaha, NE - 2012 to 2015 Database Administration on Production Servers with server configuration, performance tuning and maintenance with outstanding troubleshooting capabilities; Administered SQL Server High Availability and Disaster Recovery strategies; Security Management operations; T-SQL writing stored procedures, triggers and functions? Results:? * Converted DTS packages to SSIS packages.? * Planned and executed successful migration of our production SQL server to a VM environment.? * Excelled within deadline-intensive environment, ensuring the accurate and on-time completion of all projects.? * Responsible for all tuning and maintenance of our 10+ SQL Server instances and 200+ active MS Access databases. Database Manager Professional Research Consultants - Omaha, NE - 2008 to 2012 Routine exporting of data for assigned weekly/monthly projects; Set up databases for new projects; Process improvements for all projects; Identified and fixed issues for the other database managers with project databases.? Results:? * Earned "outstanding" ratings on annual reviews for the past three years. Recognized for high-quality work, organizational strengths and exceptional customer service delivery.? * Became "go to" person to train and address questions from other Database Managers.? * Excelled within deadline-intensive environment, ensuring the accurate and on-time completion of all projects.? * Responsible for all process improvement with our project databases, including MS Access, SQL, and VB. Database Administrator/Membership Minnesota Dental Association - Saint Paul, MN - 2004 to 2008 Coordinated physical changes to computer databases; coded, tested and implemented physical databases; designed databases; restructured and improved databases? Results:? * Demonstrated the ability to learn new organizational processes, workflows, policies and procedures with minimal ramp-up time.? * Created databases that improved efficiencies and accuracy Education Certificate in Computer Programming Brown College - Mendota Heights, MN 1998
Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator - US Dept of Labor Washington, DC - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator US Dept of Labor - Washington, DC - January 2016 to Present Environment: Oracle 11.2.0.3, 10.2.0.5, RHEL 5.5, Sun Solaris 10.0, DataGaurd, RAC, RMAN, OEM, Datapump, AWR, ADDM, ASH, TOAD 11.0.? ?  Worked in an environment comprising 200 databases with the largest databases each of size 5 TB.?  Planning, Implementing and Validating various versions of Oracle Databases to 12c Release & upgrades on all the environments (in a procedural approach Dev, Test, Stage, QA and Production) also Planning of back out procedures like downgrades/building parallel environments and also working on proof of concept for Oracle 12c upgrades.?  Upgrade/Migration of Databases from Oracle 11.2.0.2 to 11.2.0.3.?  Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM?  Implemented Goldengate unidirectional replication on RAC using ACFS file system.?  Implemented 12c Grid control (Multi OMS architecture) on 11.2.0.3 database, Standby OMS architecture is under progress.?  Monitored Goldengate using 12c Goldengate Plugin and also Goldengate Director and shell scripts for alerting GG process down alerts.?  Performed periodic refreshing/cloning of production databases to development & testing databases using RMAN Duplicate database.?  Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).?  Monitoring production database and provide detailed analysis on Long running, Resource consuming SQLs, Wait events, Locks and Alert log file.?  Providing suggestion and workaround to Tune the Bad Performing SQL by giving Index and Stats fixwith the help of Execution plan and Predications?  Monitoring and working in Oracle Golden Gate support activities like new configuration, deployment on existing configuration and Release activities.?  Managing Golden Gate abended, stopped process, errors, alerts and lag alert using golden gate director.?  Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases?  Installation, Configuration of ASM, RAC databases, Adding Services and maintaining GRID control.?  Migrated databases from 9i and 10g to 11g R2 using utilities like export/import, datapump and transportable tablespace.?  Implemented replication on databases using and Golden gate between homogeneous and heterogeneous databases.?  Performed replication between databases using Materialized Views and DB links from a remote database.?  Successfully performed installation, setup and creation of Primary & Standby database using dataguard to deliver no data loss with maximum availability mode.?  Worked closely with application teams for rolling application.?  Performance tuning of Oracle instances?  Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.?  Involved in performing upgradation from Oracle 9i, 10g to Oracle 11.2.0.3 RAC database.?  Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.?  Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.?  Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).?  Achieved optimal performance tuning by using explain plan, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, TKPROF utilities.?  Installation, configuration and maintenance of Physical Standby using OracleData Guard for Disaster recovery process on Oracle 11g, 10g.?  Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.?  Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.?  Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization..?  Performed other Oracle DBA responsibilities performance tuning, monitoring tablespaces, monitoring users, etc. as well as much problem solving.?  Designed Logical and physical database for business transaction functionality.?  Provide production support for the deployed project till it is stabilized.?  Collaborated with the UNIX system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database?  Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.?  Creating database objects Tablespaces, Application Users, Database schemas, profiles, granting privileges and roles, and creating database links. Oracle Database Administrator Honor Health - Phoenix, AZ - June 2012 to December 2015  Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapumpexport/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.?  Ensured that oracle database systems operate securely and efficiently.?  Managing databases from planning and testing stages through implementation and support.?  Performed day to day activities like resolving Tickets for multiple environments, provided Development Support, coordination with development for Application Tuning.?  Worked extensively on monitoring grid control database, configuration of error notifications, installing listeners, and adding them to the grid control.?  Performed conversion Non RAC single instance to Real Application Cluster (RAC) database instances.?  Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.?  Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.?  Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.?  Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.?  Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.?  Provided 24X7support for all the production and development databases.?  Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".?  Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using DatapumpExport/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.?  Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.?  Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.?  Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i/10g to 10gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.?  Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.?  Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.?  Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.?  Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.?  Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.?  Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.?  Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.?  Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.?  Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.? ? Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Education Bachelor of Science in Economic in Economic University of Yaounde II Skills backups (5 years), Database (5 years), databases (5 years), Oracle (5 years), replication (5 years) Additional Information Professional Skills?  Experienced in Performance Tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, and STATSPACK.?  Expert in implementing High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Oracle Data Guard and replication using Streams.?  Proficient in database concepts with rich experience in database design, development and management.?  Excellent knowledge of Oracle architecture, Golden Gate architecture, SQL Performance tuning, SQLT and eager to explore any unknowns.?  Good working knowledge of troubleshooting Infrastructure issues related to Oracle database server such as memory, CPU, I/O, Disk etc.?  Working knowledge of technologies such as Oracle, Oracle Real Application Cluster, Oracle Golden Gate, and Oracle Http Servers.?  Hands-on experience working as Production DBA, working knowledge on SLA metrics and Remedy system and worked with Oracle Support.?  Installed and configured 2, 4, 6 node server side load balancingRAC (Real Application Clusters) databases on HP UNIX and Linux with ASM (Automatic Storage Management) and Data Guard.?  Experience in Upgrade from oracle 10g to 11g and Migration of oracle database from red hat Linux, Window platform to Linux on development, integration and production environment using Oracle Data Migration Assistant.?  Strong Exposure on High Availability Concepts (RAC, Standby), Database Cloning, and Oracle Streams and Oracle Golden gate.?  Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.?  Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10gAutomatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.?  High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance.?  Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot Cloning feature.?  Performed database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, migration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, and cloning on the above said versions.?  Extensively managed users, privileges, profiles, schemas using OracleEnterprise Manager (OEM).?  Configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control (in Oracle 11g, 10g) for the purpose of monitoring multiple databases and application servers.?  Implemented physical standby database for maximum availability using Oracle Data Guard 11g with Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C cloud Control.?  Implementing 10g Data guard with one physical database.?  Experience in configuration and administration of Data Guard (Physical/Logical standby Databases).?  Setup RMAN solutions for all Oracle Databases -- created rman repository, provided best practices, optimizations and data guard and cloning techniques -- restore and recovery.?  Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for switch-over and fail-over purpose.?  Experience in Implementation of High Availability solutions with Oracle 10g &11g RAC, Physical Standby Databases (Data Guard)?  Experience with supporting the Production Database with complete lifecycle including Installations, Upgrade, Patching, Cloning, Backup/Recovery, High Availability including Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) and Data Guard. Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.?  Excellent knowledge in FlashbackRecovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN. Experience in applying patches/ patch sets to the databases.?  Extensively worked on Import/Export and DataPump Import/Export tools.?  Knowledge in configuring ASM (Automatic Storage Management)?  UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.?  Proficient in complete,incomplete recovery of the database, Point in Time Recovery (PITR), and Tablespace Point in Time Recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.?  Expertise in implementing partitioning methodologies (Range partitioning, List partitioning, Hash partitioning, Composite partitioning) on tables and indexes for high performance.?  Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.?  Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.? ? TECHNICAL SKILLS? Databases: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c? Database Tools:? Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Log miner, Statspack/AWR, Shareplex Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Oracle Migration Workbench, ERwin, QDesigner, Remedy? ? Operating Systems: MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX? Hardware:? Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage , Sun Enterprise Servers [?] Sun StorEdge 6320, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers, Compaq Servers [?] HP/UX-9000, Red Hat Linux 6.2
Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator - Quest Technologies Gaithersburg, MD - Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Quest Technologies - Marlboro, MA - June 2014 to May 2017 Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.? ? Worked with different middleware & IDM teams to resolve their issues from the database side.? ? Experience in Replication of Databases using Oracle Streams and Logical Standby.? ? Worked with Data Architect on dimensional modeling to optimize the already existing data-warehouse database using STAR Schema, identifying Fact and Dimension Tables for providing a unified view to ensure consistent decision making.? ? Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (tablespaces, datafiles, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space, in adherence to the Optimal Flex Architecture.? ? Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.? ? Monitoring Day-Day Backups, Log's and recovering them as per the requirement. Utilized LOG MINER Technology and applied Application Database Transactions on other Databases.? ? Developed Shell scripts, SQL & PL/SQL scripts for monitoring Golden Gatet processes and their stats running on 60+ servers from one single database repository providing table level granularity with end-to-end replication map and thus maintain history of all GoldenGate processes for later analysis.? ? Performed Oracle Schema level and Table level data migrations using Datapump EXPDP/IMPDP.? ? Configuring and scheduling of Oracle database backup using RMAN.? ? Performed data loads from flat files into an Oracle database using SQL*Loader.? ? Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one-year-old partitions then archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.? ? Monitoring of tablespaces, memory structures, rollback segments, logs, and alerts.? ? Monitor and fully analyze performance issues in production Oracle databases by using OEM, ASH/AWR/ADDM, EXPLAINPLAN and TKPROF tools.? ? Partitioning Tables, Rebuilding of Indexes, Securefiles, DBLINKS, Materialized Views, Store Procedures, Triggers and constraints.? ? Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.? ? Setting up ofOracleand Application user accounts and passwords, monitoring application security Setup, Configured Oracle Data Guard using physical standby database.? ? Implemented Dataguard / Standby (with FAL), performed switchover/failover.? ? Patched Oracle databases using OPatch utility.? ? Responsible to improve the performance by Using the Hints, Indexes, Explain Plan? ? Performance tuning of SQL statements using STATSPACK, TKPROF, Explain Plan and SQL Trace Setup and documented GoldenGate replication on 10g and 11g for support team.? ? Worked with RAC implementation team. Added nodes.? ? Tablespace management including, adding/resize data files, allocated quotas to user and managed disk space? ? Help writing database triggers, packages, procedures, functions, utilities for application development.? ? Implemented backup strategies using hot/cold, exp/imp used on the business req.? ? Cloning databases using scripts as well as RMAN and performed Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN.? ? Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.? ? Provided 24X7 supports for all the production and development databases.? ? Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g/11g to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.? ? Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.? ? Handled Chained Rows and Row migration, and solved the database performance issues.? ? Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.? ? Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues like network failures and ASM DISK group errors and node failures in the RAC cluster.? ? Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analysed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth.? ? Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries? ? Implemented Logical and Physical Standby Databases for RAC cluster on Sun Solaris platform using Data Guard feature of Oracle 11g R2.? ? Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 11gR2.? ? Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Data Pump export/import utilities in Oracle 11gR2.? ? Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.? ? Implemented disaster recovery system, using RMAN and custom written shell scripts. Create and maintain Oracle Data Guard configuration? ? Experienced working on non-prod databases which are resided on Virtual Machines and understanding the working process.? ? Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, RAC, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Data Pump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Database Administrator Borders Group Inc - Ann Arbor, MI - April 2011 to May 2014 DBA supporting three major projects from Development to Production via Tech-Test environments, involving daily configuration, administration all running on IBM AIX 5.2 & 5.3. Database sizes range from 4GB to 2TB (in ODS & EDW environments).? ? Proven experience in troubleshooting issues related to Oracle RAC (Node Evictions, Node Reboots).? ? Experienced with all facets of Oracle DBA day-to-day activities like production, database monitoring, Backup & Recovery using RMAN, Cloning, Troubleshooting production issues, and Physical Database Design.? ? Extensive Experience in working with the Tools like OEM, AWR, ASH, ADDM Expdp/Impdp, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Plan Baselines.? ? Good Experience in applying patches like Critical Patch Updates (CPU), Patch Set Updates (PSU), and One-Off Patches, Interim patches, DST, Patch sets as per the Oracle recommendations.? ? Installed & configured Oracle Management Server (OMS) & Oracle Grid Control.? ? Designing (Physical & Logical) and Implementation, database user creation and database access both at role & table levels, as well as final Project Performance Assessment/Evaluation.? ? Create database Objects, Tablespaces, Schemas as needed.? ? Schema migrations from Development to Production via Tech Test environments.? ? Database refresh from Production to Tech Test as needed.? ? Backup Oracle DBA for two major projects involving periodic administration, troubleshooting & tuning of 10g Oracle databases (10g & 11g single instances running on both IBM AIX 5.3, SunOS 5.8 & HP-UX B.11.11.? ? Create oracle databases on configured servers using both the DBCA & Database creation scripts.? ? Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.? ? Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10gAutomatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfil the storage needs.? ? Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10gRAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.? ? Designed daily, weekly Backup and Recovery procedures for production, non- production databases using RMAN backups taking periodic Complete, cumulative and differential Incremental Backups.? ? Data Refresh/Cloning from Production environment to setup QA/ DEV using RMAN Duplicate.? ? Intensively used latest 10g/11g Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitoring (ADDM) reports for the health check of the databases, and used the notification tool to send the alerts in OEM Grid Control.? ? Scheduled UNIX scripts in crontab jobs to automate daily tasks like backups, monitoring the alert logs, and backup logs to send notification emails.? ? Migrated data to a new ASM Diskgroup to improve the IO performance of the database.? ? Export/Import, Datapump, Transportable tablepsaces to migrate databases from one database to another.? ? Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshoot, resolve the issues, monitoring alert log, trace files.? ? Recovery of Database (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering the tables dropped accidentally, Recovering data files, recovering from Block Corruption) from previous RMAN backups.? ? Performed capacity planning, space monitoring like tablespace growth, ASM disk space.? ? Resolve critical issues by raising SR with Oracle Support and Root Cause Analysis (RCA).? ? Application of Oracle software patches when/where necessary.? ? Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 10g (9.2.0.8), DBMS STATS, Data pump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Education Bachelor Degree in the ARTS University of Lome-Togo - Lome, TG Skills backup (5 years), Cloning (5 years), Database (5 years), Databases (6 years), HP-UX (6 years) Additional Information Skills Summary? ? Enabling Load Balancing in a Multi-Tier Architecture? ? Import/Export and Expdp/ Impdp utilities.? ? Monitor nightly Database backup Jobs and necessary actions for failed backup jobs including script corrections, disk space monitoring and Database availability.? ? Setup procedure for Database statistics gathering - Frequency, Best Time of the day to execute stats gathering jobs, correct level of gathering statistics.? ? In-depth understanding on oracle utilities SQL Trace, Explain Plan, TKPROF, Statspack, AWR, Analyzer and DBMS_STATS in Performance Tuning.? ? Creating roles, profiles, privileges and assigning roles to users.? ? Extensively worked on monitoring and optimizing the database by performance tuning.? ? Hands on experience with various tools like SQL*Loader, TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).? ? Extensive experience in Installations, configuration, Cloning, Security, Patching, Upgrades.? ? Proactive Monitoring identifying areas that need to be improved performance in the application and database using 11g/10gOEM Grid Monitoring.? ? Performance tuning of the database (Memory Allocation Tuning, I/O Tuning, and Tuning Contentions) using TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM.? ? Creating extracts, data pumps and replicats on production servers, splitting replicats for efficient data transfer between servers, performance tuning using BATCHSQL, KEYCOLS, HANDLECOLLISIONS, CHECKPOINTSECS &troubleshooting extract/replicat ABEND issues.? ? Database Upgradation, Migrations using traditional way (DBUA, Manual and export/import) as well as non-traditional way (Transportable table spaces).? ? Migrated databases from Non-ASM file system to ASM file system using RMAN.? ? Upgrading and Migration of Oracle database to higher version and other platforms using manual method and traditional Export/Import, datapump & Transportable Tablespace (TTS).? ? Experience in coding SQL, PL/SQL package, function, stored procedure, triggers, and materialized view for Oracle database.? ? Implementation of Enterprise wide Database Monitoring enabling Oracle 11g Enterprise Manager Grid Control. One stop solution for monitoring every single Oracle Database within the global enterprise? ? Database Backup and Recovery using RMAN including duplicating/cloning Databases across with point-in-time recovery option.? ? Installed Oracle Golden Gate 11g, Implemented uni-directional and bi-directional replication.? ? Strong experience in RMAN, fail-over/fail-back/switch-over of stand by databases? ? Experienced in Installation and Configuration of Oracle Primary and Standby (Dataguard) Database and Switchover/Switchback of Database in 10GR2 /11GR2 RAC? ? Experience in multi-node and RAC environments including configuration of PCP.? ? Experience with various database Backup and Recovery methods like PITR, TSPITR, Export/Import and Flashback Technologies.? ? Troubleshooting the production databases (RAC, Non-RAC) within less time.? ? Highly Experience in Tuning database in RAC / Non-RAC environment for better Performance.? ? Hands on experience with logical backups, Hot/Cold backups, Recovery, and cloning of databases using (RMAN) Recovery Manager, SQL-Backtrack, VERITAS Net Backup.? ? Disk Space Management involving managing archives, space allocation to various tablespaces and also capacity planning for new applications.? ? Expertise in Configuring RMAN with Catalog /Nocatalog and worked on Point-In-Time Recovery and flashback.? ? Plugging the tablespace between different platforms using Cross platform transportable tablespace Utility.? ? Collecting performance statistics using Statspack/AWR (Automatic Workload Repository) and ADDM (Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor).? ? Used TKPROF utility and Explain Plan for tuning SQL queries.? ? Experience in regular DBA activities such as Upgrades, Patches, TAR support, Cloning, Backups and Recovery Manager, Performance Tuning, Capacity Planning and documentation? ? TECHNICAL SKILLS? ? Databases Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c? Database Tools? Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Log miner, Statspack/AWR, Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Remedy? ? Operating Systems UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX, Windows? Hardware? Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage , Sun Enterprise Servers [?] Sun StorEdge 6320, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers, Compaq Servers [?] HP/UX-9000, Red Hat Linux 6.2? ? Middleware BEA Weblogic 10.2.3? Remote Tools Cisco VPN, Checkpoint VPN, Remote Admin, VNC, Remote Desktop, VMware Virtualization
Informix Database Administrator;Informix Database Administrator:::Job Seeker Brooklyn, NY - Work Experience MAJOR GLOBAL ORGANIZATION - June 1999 to Present Solely manage all distributed database environments for diverse industry clients. Enhance database performance, perform backups, restores, security, load testing, quality assurance, monitoring and automation, cluster configuration and replication. Ensure technical and functional design meet business requirements. Informix Database Administrator Spears - February 1997 to June 1999 for large brokerage firm. Responsibilities include general database administration, backup and recovery, performance tuning and security Informix Database Administrator Jason Tynan & Company - April 1990 to February 1997 for a fashion company. Responsibilities include database administration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, security, monitoring and automation.
Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Developer;Intelligence Analyst:::Database Administrator Database Administrator Glenn Dale, MD - 20+ years experience in Information Technology. Areas of expertise: Database Administration and Database Development with MS SQL Server, Oracle, MS Access; Programming languages of T-SQL, PL/SQL and Visual Basic. Enterprise Operations and Maintenance. Extensive SQL reporting with SSRS, SCCM and Altiris. Active DoD Top Secret Clearance. CompTia Security+ certification. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator CSRA - Arlington, VA - April 2016 to Present Department of Homeland Security contract as SQL Server DBA. Active Top Secret clearance.? ? Enterprise Database Administration duties? *Install, configure and integrate database systems for internal and external users/clients.? *Create, document and implement standards and/or modeling to monitor and enhance the capacity and performance of databases. ? *Perform analyses and review of applications being released into production to ensure software conforms to build management practices and STIG.? *Evaluate needs and requirements of users and provide technical expertise in development of technical, structural and organizational specifications. ? *Participate in client/project meeting(s) for project definition, needs assessment and design review.? *JIRA ticketing system. Database Administrator Apex Systems - Washington, DC - December 2015 to April 2016 Database Administrator: Department of State contract. Responsible for managing enterprise management application databases supporting HR Dept. Active Top Secret clearance.? ? ? *Provided O&M system/user support: regular data updates/loads, requirements gathering, system testing, and release validation? *Setup and managed SQL Server 2005/2008R2/2012 databases and SSRS in production and non-production environments.? *Patched all SQL with latest hot-fixes, service packs and ensured compliancy with agency security configurations standards: STIG.? *Monitored all SQL Servers with system monitoring tools NetIQ and Quest Spotlight.? *Developed and managed backup and disaster recovery strategies in all environments.? *Provided database support to application developers and assisted technical troubleshooting Microsoft Windows server operating system. Database Administrator Chameleon Integrated Services - August 2015 to November 2015 Worked as Database Administrator supporting Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) as member of CIO Systems Engineering team; Technical lead for database technology. Responsible for managing application databases for enterprise. Applications: SCCM, SolarWinds, BDNA, AlterPoint, NetIQ, Remedy, Retina, McAfee HBSS, BackUp Exec, Citrix, SharePoint, and Active Administrator. DoD Top Secret clearance. CompTIA Security + certification? ? * Perform database installations and configurations all environments.? * Create database maintenance and disaster recovery plans.? * Create database views, stored procedures, indexes, triggers.? * Create custom SCCM reports in SQL Server Reporting Service (SSRS).? * Perform data imports and exports (CMIS, DPAS)? * Apply database security updates and vendor patches.? * Monitor database logs and counters? * Performance Tuning and Query Optimization (PTO).? * Configure and maintain database security in accordance with DISA standards (STIG, SRR).? * Automated SQL metrics for Service Level Agreements (SLA's).? * Provide database support to application administrators.? * Provide user training in SCCM reports and self-service data portal.? * Assisted in Hyper-V project - built File, Print, DHCP VM servers.? * Work Environment: Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2005, SSRS, SCCM, Hyper-V, MS Office, SQL Cluster, SharePoint Database Administrator Indigo IT - October 2013 to August 2015 Same duties as above (same DISA DoD contract)? * Received Awards for job performance Database Administrator ActioNet, Inc - June 2009 to October 2013 Same duties as above (same DISA DoD contract)? * Received Awards for job performance Database Administrator Command Information, Inc - July 2008 to June 2009 Same duties as above (same DISA DoD contract)? * Received Special Recognition Award for job performance within 6 months of hire Database Administrator K-Force Government Solutions, Inc - December 2007 to July 2008 Worked at Department of State, Foreign Service Institute (FSI) supporting the Student Training Management System application. Secret Clearance.? Responsibilities included:? * Creating and updating stored procedures, triggers, indexes, constraints, views and tables in databases.? * Creating and updating SQL reports in Crystal Reports and MS Access.? * Work Environment: SQL Server 2005, MS Access 2007, Crystal Reports X, MS Office Database Administrator Lockheed Martin IT, Inc - Washington, DC - March 2001 to December 2007 * Administration and Development on Grant Management database at National Institute of Justice (NIJ) @ DOJ.? * Advanced SQL & VB coding: stored procedures, functions, triggers, views, indexes, DDL, DML, ODBC? * Module, Form and Reports development? * Data imports and exports? * Version releases and installations? * Automated integration w/ Outlook and other customized tools with Excel, PowerPoint, and Access.? * User Training, Documentation, User Manuals.? * Received Special Recognition Award from client (only contractor in 11 year history of contract)? * Received regular Spot Awards from Lockheed Martin IT.? * Work environment: Oracle 8i, MS Access 2002, SQL*Plus, VB, Oracle DBA Studio, Oracle Designer, MS Office. Database Developer AT&T Government Solutions - Rockville, MD - July 1998 to March 2001 * Database Analyst on Central Registration Depository redesign project for the National Association of Securities Dealers-Regulation (NASDR). A $25 million redesign of legacy registration / licensing system? * Test data population, requirements & business process analysis on data migration? * Legacy data conversion and DBA QA / Analysis & review of data model (350+ tables)? * Wrote extensive SQL scripts utilizing Oracle Data Dictionary? * Work Environment: Distributed client/server, Microsoft Web Server scripted in Visual Basic, Oracle 8? ? Developed Visual Basic database applications for various projects:? * NASDR Metrics, Vienna, VA? * Fannie Mae Integration, Vienna, VA? * Compaq-Primus Biz, McLean, VA? * Army Global Combat Support System, Vienna, VA? * AARP - Y2K Remediation, Washington, DC? * RSI project, Vienna, VA Intelligence Analyst Computer & High Tech Management, Inc - November 1987 to July 1998 Worked as an Intelligence Analyst for Department of Justice (DOJ) contractor that maintained sensitive M204 database used by worldwide field offices; Secret Clearance.? * Quantitative and Qualitative Analysis on intelligence reports and maintenance of sensitive M204 database? * Data Analysis on investigative reports: compliance, regulatory, financial, legal, and overseas cables? * Analytical, detail oriented, independent work environment? * Received regular Spot Awards Education Economics Penn State University 1986 Skills Microsoft SQL Server (10+ years), Oracle (8 years), Database Administration (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/stephen-hooley-72360450 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY:? Databases: SQL Server 2012, 2008R2, 2008, 2005, Oracle 9i, 8i, MS Access, M204? Other:? Hyper-V, SQL Clustering, SQL, T-SQL, PL\SQL, VB, SSRS, SSIS, DDL, DML, ODBC, SCCM, Altiris, SolarWinds, AlterPoint, BDNA, NetIQ, Active Directory, Replication, Visual Studio, ERwin, SharePoint, MS Office, McAfee HBSS, BackUp Exec, Citrix, Remedy, JIRA
ETL\ Database Developer;ETL\ Database Developer;Database\BI Developer:::ETL\ Database Developer ETL\ Database Developer - Aegis Mobile Washington, DC - Strong skills in SQL development An in-depth grasp of SQL reporting, analytics and business intelligence? Conversant with T-SQL coding Great expertise in processing data and flowcharting techniques? Great problem solving and analytical skills Able to manage all the stages of software development? Able to identify and resolve intricate problems Able to communicate clearly and get along well with other coworkers.? Ability to develop applications in a detail oriented environment? Excellent understanding of database structures, principles, theories and practices.? Excellent grasp of data warehousing and such processes as extracting, transforming and loading? TOOLS AND TECHNOLOGY? ? RDBMS: SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008 and [?]? Database Tools:SSIS, SSAS, SSRS? Reporting: SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)? Languages: T-SQL? MS-Office: Microsoft Office Tools. Work Experience ETL\ Database Developer Aegis Mobile - October 2016 to Present MD? ?  Troubleshot SQL Server related CPU/Memory, I/O using Performance Monitor; Collaborated with system teams and development teams for codes release including MSSQL database changes and patches.?  Worked as a primary T-SQL developer in creating complex Stored Procedures, triggers, cursors, tables, views and other SQL joins and statements for applications.?  Generated variety of business reports using SQL Server 2008 SSRS including matrix report, parameter report, and dashboard with charts and drill down function.?  Transferred data from various data sources/business systems including MS Excel, MS Access, Flat Files, Oracle etc. to SQL Server using SSIS various features such as multitasking, conditional split, union, union all, merge, lookup, fuzzy lookup, data conversion.?  Designed and implemented Modular and Reusable ETL processes and associated data structures for Data Staging, Change Data Capture (CDC), Data Balancing & Reconciliation, Exception Handling & Reject Recycling, Surrogate Key Generation & Assignment, Data Lineage Tracking, ETL Auditing, etc. ETL\ Database Developer Department of Labor - May 2016 to October 2016 DC?  Developed and maintained complex SQL stored procedures and functions.?  Involved with full development cycle of a Data Warehouse, including requirements gathering, design, implementation, and maintenance.?  Worked with Type 1 and 2 dimensions, Fact Tables, Star Schema design, Operational Data Store (ODS), leveling and other Data Warehouse concepts.?  Export and import data from Flat file, CSV file, Excel to/from SQL Server database using SSIS.?  Developed Complex SSIS Packages to load data into Staging, ODS, and Data Warehouse systems.?  Developed SSIS packages using Lookup Transformations, Merge Joins, Union all Fuzzy Look Ups, and Derived Columns with Multiple Data Flow tasks.?  Developed SSIS package to load data into dimensions and fact tables using slowly changing dimension.?  Created XML Package Configurations, Error Handling using Event Handlers for On Error, On Warning, and?  On-Task Failed Event Types.?  Involved in automating SSIS Packages using SQL Server Agent Jobs.?  Configured various event driven e-mail notification process in SSIS packages.?  Created audit database to handle SSIS error output and validate data.?  Experience designing visual report solutions, including dashboards using SSRS and/or other data visualization/dashboard tools.?  Deployed SSRS report to Report Server Web Service.?  Configured report server and report manager for SSRS report deployment and management.?  Designed reports using filters, single value parameters, multi value parameters, dependent parameters, and Cascading Parameters.?  Created Report Email Subscription using Data Driven and Time Driven Report Subscriptions.?  Wrote efficient stored procedures for the optimal performance of the system.?  Optimized SQL queries for improved performance and Reports rendering.?  Developed, executed, documented, and maintained appropriate BI procedures.?  Worked with users and development staff to determine requirements.?  Wrote complex SQL queries based on business requirements.?  Created complex stored procedures and functions to support efficient data storage and manipulation.?  Wrote complex scripts for DML and DDL.?  Collaborated with network operators, application developers, and DBAs to enhance end user experience.?  Scheduling Jobs and Alerting using SQL Server Agent. Database\BI Developer Ardiyo LLC - November 2014 to May 2016 MD?  Developed and maintained complex SQL stored procedures and functions.?  Developed a complete SSIS life cycle creating SSIS packages including building, deploying, executing, and scheduling the packages.?  Implemented Event Handlers and Error Handling in SSIS packages.?  Created SSIS package that refreshes type one and type two dimension tables using slowly changing dimensions transformation.?  Created maintenance plan packages for backup and restore operations.?  Designed Parameterized Reports for generating Ad-Hoc reports as per client's requirement.?  Configured subscriptions, snapshots, cache refresh and reports history on report manager.?  Involved in Normalization and De-Normalization of existing tables for faster query retrieval.?  Created groups, roles, users and assigned access privileges.?  Deployed database objects from development/testing environment to production environment.?  Transformed data from various data sources using OLE DB connection by creating various SSIS packages.?  Developed and published reports using MS SQL Server Reporting Services. Education Bachelor's in Accounting Addis abeba unversity Skills SQL Server (3 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2008, [?]
Senior Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator:::Senior Database Administrator Senior Database Administrator - Centene -  Excellent experience in managing large-scale OLTP databases 5+TB size in HA and DR setup.?  Design and Architect End-to-End Oracle Database and Cloud Solutions based on commodity server, storage and network components.?  Proficiency with Installation and maintenance of replication tool Golden Gate by creating extract process, extract pump, and replicat.?  Implemented Golden Gate for data recovery and data migration for Oracle 11gR1 RAC multi nodes on IBM AIX and debugging Golden Gate issues such as extract, replicat rebuild and abend.?  Experience in using Golden Gate in moving large volumes of transactional data, with minimal impact to online systems.?  Performed data replication, transformation and delivery of database transactions using Golden gate replication tool. Supported a large number of Development Databases.?  Laid hands on tools and experienced features like Data Replay, Log Miner and Flashback data Archive, Schema Management, Data guard and RMAN in Oracle 11g. Testing and Validation of Oracle 12c/11g RAC databases on Dell Hardware Stack which include PowerEdge RAC and Blade Servers with networking Force 10 switches and storages like EMC, Compellent and Equallogic.?  Proficient in setting up Standby Database supported by ORACLE DATAGUARD for disaster recovery purpose.?  Implementing FSFO (Fast start failover) on databases and configuring disaster recovery site using Dataguard. Also proficient with new 11g features such as Active Dataguard and Snapshot standby database.?  Delivered SQL and Database performance tuning services via V$/GV$ views, Explain Plan, TKPROF, AWR (Stats pack) reports, ADDM, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Grid control, analyzed SQL trace dumps?  Expert in implementing development, testing, staging, production and standby databases for OLTP, DSS and Data Warehousing using customized shell scripts and stepwise.?  Implementing standby database and database replication to provide high availability of database.?  Expert in implementing oracle streams, and two types of standby databases supported by dataguard, logical standby and physical standby databases.?  Performed tuning of Oracle Wait Events/Latches-Enqueues/Memory structures using Automatic shared memory management (ASMM), ASH and Buffer Cache Advisors.?  Hands on experience in Performance Tuning and Memory (SGA) Tuning.?  Expert in Performance Tuning i.e. tuning applications, shared pool, I/O distribution, rollback segments, buffer cache, redo mechanisms.?  Performing Fault Injection Test Cases for verifying High Availability at each layer of RAC stack like port failover, instance failover, ASM failover and Node failover.?  Installation and Configuration of Oracle 12c Multitenant container and pluggable databases with Flex Cluster and Flex ASM.?  Upgrading and migrating Oracle 11gR2 RAC Databases running on legacy infrastructure to Oracle 12c Pluggable Databases running on the latest platforms.?  Implemented High availability using Golden Gate Replication. Implanted Bi-directional replication using golden gate.?  Implementation of Oracle Flash cache and different host based caching technologies like Dell Fluid Cache/Fusion IO to improve Oracle database performance.?  Design and Implementation of Oracle Disaster Recovery Solutions using Oracle Data Guard and Storage based replication technologies.?  Proficient in Performance tuning using AWR Reports, Reviewing Explain Plans for SQLs, Creating Baselines, Enable Tracing, Suggesting necessary indexes for boosting SQL performance.?  Experience in Database Security by implementing Data Encryption(TDE) and SSL Setup over insecure networks.?  Proficient in logical ba ckups Export/Import and Datapump. Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.?  Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.?  Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10g RAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.?  Configured Manager, Replicate and Extract processes and implemented unidirectional, bidirectional replication using Oracle 11g Golden Gate on RHEL 5 platform.?  UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Centene - St. Louis, MO - May 2017 to Present Environment: Oracle 11.2.0.3, SQL server ,Teradata, MongoDB, Dataguard, RAC, TOAD, RAC, Exadata, MS SQL server? ? Responsibilities:?  Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).?  Upgrades and Patches-Installation of oracle 10g, 11g and 12c databases in production, development and test environments depending on project requirements.?  Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).?  Collaborated with the UNIX system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database.?  RMAN CLONING-Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.?  Performance-Making structural changes to the databases. Sizing database objects for effective space management and optimal performance.?  Data Migration/REPLICATION-Extensively used ORACLE GOLDEN GATE and ORACLE DATAGUARD for data replication and protection. Also used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from other databases.?  Security-Managing database security.?  Security-Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.?  Performance Tuning-Defragmentation of tables and indexes for improved performance and effective space management.?  Performance Tuning-Managed Database Maintenance Activities to achieve optimum database uptime.?  Network-Configured Listener and Tnsnames.?  Performance Tuning-Performing regular activities like monitoring the alert logs, redo log status, listener. Log and checking the space for normal segments, rollback segments and tablespaces.?  Database Links-Created database links between two databases to access data from one local database to remote database using distributed database feature.?  Backup & Recovery-Planned database backups (operating system, full/incremental database backups, Datapump, or export/import)?  SDLC-Provide 24/7 support to during production support for the deployed project till it is stabilized.?  Scripting-Wrote SQL scripts to create database objects like tables, views and sequences.? ? Responsibilities: Database Administrator Priority Health - Grand Rapids, MI - January 2014 to April 2017 Environment: Oracle 11.2.0.3, 10.2.0.5, RHEL 5.5, Sun Solaris 10.0, DataGaurd, RAC, RMAN, OEM, Datapump, AWR, ADDM, ASH, TOAD 11.0.? ? Responsibilities:?  Worked in an environment comprising 200 databases with the largest databases each of size 5 TB.?  Upgrade/Migration of Databases from Oracle 11.2.0.2 to 11.2.0.3.?  Implemented 12c Grid control (Multi OMS architecture) on 11.2.0.3 database, Standby OMS architecture is under progress.?  Used TOAD for database management.?  Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).?  Performed Database Maintenance Tasks, Rebuilding Fragmented tables, gathering statistics, refreshing materialized views, created partition tables and maintaining index's?  Enabled Flashback for database to create restore points and supporting DDL changes?  Used Oracle database vault and proactively protecting application data, Created Oracle Wallet, Enabling Transparent Data Encryption, Automatic Login Enabled for Transparent Data Encryption, Setting and Resetting the Master Key, Adding and Removing Salt from an Encrypted Columns, created encrypted table spaces and backup wallet and master keys to tapes?  Monitored Goldengate using 12c Goldengate Plugin and also Goldengate Director and shell scripts for alerting GG process down alerts.?  Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.?  Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.?  Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.?  Installed, configured Oracle database Vault and database Fire wall server and Implemented Advanced security 12c Oracle Advanced Security using TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) and Enabling Auto Login for the Keystore for cdb$root and Pluggable databases?  Applied PSU quarterly on 11g/12c GRID & RDBMS homes using opatch auto and Up-gradation of 11g/12c databases and Implementing catalog backup from RMAN?  Performed periodic refreshing/cloning of production databases to development & testing databases using RMAN Duplicate database.?  Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).?  Experience in handling large databases upto 4TB in size and largest table of size 60GB with 145 million records.?  Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases?  Installation, Configuration of ASM, RAC databases, Adding Services and maintaining GRID control.?  Migrated databases from 9i and 10g to 11g R2 using utilities like export/import, datapump and transportable tablespace.?  Implemented replication on databases using and Golden gate between homogeneous and heterogeneous databases.?  Performed replication between databases using Materialized Views and DB links from a remote database.?  Successfully performed installation, setup and creation of Primary & Standby database using dataguard to deliver no data loss with maximum availability mode.?  Worked closely with application teams for rolling application.?  Performance tuning of Oracle instances?  Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.?  Involved in performing upgradation from Oracle 9i, 10g to Oracle 11.2.0.3 RAC database.?  Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.?  Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.?  Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).?  Achieved optimal performance tuning by using explain plan, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, TKPROF utilities.?  Installation, configuration and maintenance of Physical Standby using Oracle Data Guard for Disaster recovery process on Oracle 11g, 10g.?  Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.?  Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.?  Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization..?  Performed other Oracle DBA responsibilities performance tuning, monitoring tablespaces, monitoring users, etc. as well as much problem solving.?  Designed Logical and physical database for business transaction functionality.?  Provide production support for the deployed project till it is stabilized.?  Collaborated with the UNIX system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database?  Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.?  Creating database objects Tablespaces, Application Users, Database schemas, profiles, granting privileges and roles, and creating database links. Oracle Database Administrator Mayo Clinic - Waukon, IA - July 2012 to January 2014 Responsibilities:?  Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.?  Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.?  Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.?  Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.?  Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".?  Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.?  Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.?  Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.?  Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i/10g to 10gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.?  Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.?  Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.?  Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.?  Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.?  Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i/10g to 10gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.? ?  Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.?  Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.?  Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.?  Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4.?  Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.?  Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.?  Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.?  Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.?  Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".?  Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.?  Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.? ? Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Education Associate in Computer Science University Of Buea Skills databases (5 years), Oracle (5 years), RMAN (5 years), SQL (5 years), UNIX (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS? Databases: Oracle [?]? ? Operating Systems: HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x. Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows [?]? ? Tuning Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM? ? Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL? ? Utilities: RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, EXP, IMP, Data pump, TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer, Sql Server Management Studio 2008
Database Developer;Database Designer;Software Developer;Programmer:::Database Developer Jacksonville, FL - Work Experience Database Developer University of Computer Sciences - September 2012 to July 2016 Database Designer University of Computer Sciences - September 2012 to July 2016 Software Developer University of Computer Sciences - September 2010 to July 2016 Programmer University of Computer Sciences - September 2009 to July 2016 Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Engineer University of Computer Sciences 2009 to 2016 Skills JQuery (5 years), PHP (5 years), Javascript (5 years), ExtJs (5 years), Symfony 2 and 3 (5 years), R (1 year), Meteore (1 year), Android (2 years), SQL (7 years), PostgresSQL (5 years), MySQL (10+ years), Business Analysis (6 years), CMS (10+ years), Joomla (10+ years), Wordpress (8 years), Latex (1 year), CSS3 (4 years), Ajax (4 years), Linux (5 years), UML (6 years), XML (6 years), angular2 (1 year), Asp.Net MVC (2 years), Android (3 years), Asp .Net Core (1 year), Google Adwords (1 year), Facebook API (2 years), Google MAP API (1 year), TWILIO (1 year), Signal R (1 year), TypeScript (2 years), C# (4 years), SQLServer 2016 (1 year) Awards Gold Title June 2014
Used Database Tuning Advisor for Database:::Used Database Tuning Advisor for Database Used Database Tuning Advisor for Database - Work Experience Used Database Tuning Advisor for Database - 2005 to 2008  Performed installation of SQL Enterprise 2005, 2008, R2, 2012, 2014, 2016.?  Performed Scheduled backups and restore operations with Litespeed.?  Involved in creation of Logins, Users, groups, Roles, Jobs, Alerts, Mails confirmation upon tasks?  Setup Snapshot and Transactional Replication between Servers, and troubleshoot and monitor Publishers, Distributors, and Subscribers.?  Perform SQL Server service pack and Windows Service pack upgrades.?  Expertise in implementing Database Mirroring in SQL Server 2008R2 for high availability.?  Managed Log Shipping for hot standby computers.?  Used Database Tuning Advisor for Database performance for proper indexes.?  Maintained two different databases: Read-only reporting database and Disaster recovery database.?  Performed security tasks like Grant, Revoke permissions for security tasks. Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), databases (4 years), MS SQL SERVER (4 years), SQL (4 years), SQL Server (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS? ? Databases: SQL SERVER [?]? O/S: Windows Server [?] Vista, 7, 2012? Programming Languages: SQL, VB 6.0, VB.Net, C#, VBScript, PowerShell? Web Technologies: Asp.Net, HTML, XML, IIS 6.0, Java Script? Tools: Idera, MS Visual Studio, Quest LiteSpeed, Red Gate, BMC Patrol Maestro scheduling tool, MS Visio, Erwin, MS- Office2007. Embarcadero, SSIS, SSRS? ? Report Tools: MS SSRS
Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator - State Of Ohio DOT/Hewlett Packard, OH California, MD -  Over 10 years of experience in Oracle Database Administration.?  Over 4 years of experience in MS SQL Server Database Administration.?  Excellent knowledge in Hot and Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases.?  Installation, configuration of and performance tuning of various RDBMS versions of Oracle 12C/? [?] on UNIX, LINUX and Windows environments.?  Experience with Oracle [?] RAC including planning, installations, patching and upgrades? and adding new nodes.?  Worked on Oracle's Disaster Recovery Technologies like Standby, Data Guard Build? (Both Physical and Logical).?  Database performance tuning using Enterprise Manager, STATPACK, TKPROF, SQL Trace,? Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM.?  End-to-End Implementation/configuration of Oracle Transparent Data Encryption.? (TDE) by encrypting the Tablespaces with PCI, PII data.?  Proficient in Database design, and Data Migrations, Database Security using Auditing.?  Experience in SQL, UNIX scripting.?  Management of very large databases (VLDB) of over 8TB in OLTP environments.?  Performed backups and tested crash recoveries using conventional hot & cold backups and RMAN.?  Proficient in using RMAN, Oracle Grid Control/Enterprise Manager.?  Expertise in database recovery techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to? ensure business continuity.?  Installation, configuration of OEM Cloud Control 13C. Upgrade OEM Cloud Control from 12C to? 13C and applying patches when required.?  Installation, Upgrade, Configuration, performance tuning of Oracle GoldenGate 11g/12C.?  Maintenance of GoldenGate for Uni-Directional, Consolidation topologies.?  Experience in MSSQL Server Database Administration, Installation, Support and Performance? Tuning using Management Studio.?  Installation of MSSQL Server Database Engine/SSIS/SSRS and Configuration.?  MSSQL Server Backup and Recovery Scenarios of the Database/Schema.?  Proficient in SQL Tools like Data Governance/Compression/Partitioning for SQL Server.?  Experience in SQL Server DB Mirroring, Log Shipping, Replication, Data Migration.?  Experience in Backup-Recovery Models for MS SQL Server.?  Experience working in an Agile Development Environment.?  Excellent/Proven problem solving skills with Result oriented, Self-motivated, Team? Player and Ability to work independently. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator State Of Ohio DOT/Hewlett Packard, OH - December 2012 to Present Responsibilities:?  Provided 24*7 database administration and production support and on call rotation?  Oracle database migration between servers.?  Oracle 12C RAC Grid and Database Installation.?  Installation of Oracle RAC 11g/12C Grid on new Servers.?  Oracle database upgrades from 11g to 12C in cluster and standalone environments.?  Applied patches to Oracle 12C/11g/10g RAC and Standalone databases.?  Designing of logical and physical database architecture and Data Modelling using Erwin Tool?  Design of the data warehouse environment.?  Designing the database access and security having PCI, PII data.?  Performing RMAN backups and crash recoveries (Testing Disaster Recovery).?  Monitoring disk space utilizations, sizing, and capacity planning. Adjusting database sizes?  Involved in the data migration from Oracle 10g to Oracle 11g?  Refresh/Cloning of databases from production for Dev & QA teams?  Used importdp, exportdp, Datapump and SQL- loader to load data into tables.?  Experience in Application Performance tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM?  Performance Tuning of high volume databases (VLDB's)?  Write/modify programs, test, debug and fix database and applications issues.?  Shell Scripting and PERL Scripting.?  MS SQL Server 2008/2012 Database Installation, Configuration and Maintenance.?  Backup and Recovery of MSSQL Server Database.?  Worked on SQL Server Database Replication, Log Shipping and Data Migration Between SQL Servers.?  Monitoring of the database using the SQL Performance tools like SQL Profiler and DB Tuning Advisor.? ? ENVIRONMENT: Oracle 11g RAC, 10g RAC, 9i,AIX, LINUX, OEM, Grid Control, RMAN, ASM, SQL Server 2008/2012. Oracle Database Administrator CVS Caremark, AZ - July 2012 to December 2012 Responsibilities:?  Provided 24*7 database administration and production support and on call rotation?  Installation, Configuration and Administration of Oracle 11g, 10g, 9i databases.?  Applied PSU and CPU patches to Oracle 10g/11g RAC and Standalone Databases?  Upgraded the oracle databases from versions 9i, 10g, 11gR1 to 11gR2 (11.2.0.3)?  Designing of logical and physical database architecture as per the application requirement?  Performing RMAN backups (full/incremental) and crash recoveries.?  Performed general DBA activities like user management, tablespace management, and security management of the databases.?  Performed general tasks like, database patching, OEM Agent installations/patching, its troubleshooting in startup.?  Monitoring disk space utilizations, sizing, and capacity planning.?  Involved in the data migration from Oracle 10g to Oracle 11g on both RAC and Non-RAC databases.?  Refresh/Cloning of databases from production for Dev & QA environments using RMAN duplicate and RMAN active duplication.?  Installed 11g OEM agent on the servers using silent installation method.?  Used import/export, Data Pump, to refresh databases, tables, schemas etc from production as and when requested by the application team.?  Performance Tuning of high volume databases (>5TB)?  Experience in Performance tuning of a database using EXPLAIN PLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR , ADDM?  Used tools like OEM Grid Control and Quest's FOGLIGHT to monitor the performance of a database.?  Experience in writing MSB related scripts using shell scripting?  Setting up the User Defined Metrics for the databases as per the requirement.?  Automation of MSB related jobs/scripts?  Developed PUSH scripts in Unix to transfer scripts to all the servers?  Shell scripting and Perl scripting.? ? ENVIRONMENT: Oracle 11g RAC, 10g RAC, 9i,AIX, LINUX, OEM, Grid Control, RMAN, ASM, SQL Server Oracle Database Administrator Walgreens, IL - May 2011 to July 2012 Responsibilities:?  Provided 24*7 database administration and production support and on call rotation?  Coordinate changes to computer databases, test and implement the database applying knowledge of database management systems.?  Creating and maintaining database environments as per the requirement for development, testing and production usage.?  Applied patches to Oracle11g/10g RAC Databases?  Designing of logical and physical database architecture?  Designing the database access and security?  Performing RMAN backups and crash recoveries.?  Monitoring disk space utilizations, sizing, and capacity planning. Adjusting database sizes?  Responsible for creating triggers, packages and stored procedures.?  Create tablespaces, tables, indexes, views, synonyms, database links etc?  Involved in the data migration from Oracle 10g to Oracle 11g?  Installation, configuration, database upgrades, apply patches, performance monitoring & tuning, backup & recovery, cloning, space management, troubleshooting, data migration?  Used importdp/exportdp and SQL- loader to load data into tables.?  Migrating data from SQL server to ORACLE?  Maintaining SQL Server databases?  Performing heavy data loads using SQL *Loader?  Modifying and defining database objects as per requirements?  Auditing databases using triggers?  Experience in Application Performance tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM?  Performance Tuning of high volume databases (VLDB's)?  Wrote PL/SQL functions, stored procedures, packages and triggers?  Load data into warehouse utilizing SQL loader, shell scripting, and Oracle PL/SQL?  Monitored the performance of the scripts and worked on the debugging the issues related to the performance.?  Write/modify programs, test, debug and fix database and applications issues.?  Shell Scripting and PERL Scripting?  Refresh/Cloning of databases from production for Dev & QA teams? ENVIRONMENT: Oracle 11g RAC, 10g RAC, 9i,AIX, LINUX, OEM, Grid Control, RMAN, ASM, SQL Server 2005/2008. Oracle Database Administrator Walmart, CA - August 2007 to February 2011 Responsibilities:?  Provided 24*7 production support and on call rotation.?  Installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle 11g/10g Real Application Clusters (RAC)?  Installation, Configuration and Administration of Oracle10g and Oracle 11g databases?  Installation, Configuration and maintenance of Oracle 11g/10gData Guard 24*7 Production Environments.?  Installation, Configuration, Performance tuning of Oracle databases?  Installation and configuration of Oracle 10g RAC, Standby and Data Guard?  Designing the logical and physical architecture of database?  Installation and administration of Goldengate.?  Replicated the DDL and DML data uni-directionally and bi-directionally using GoldenGate?  Developing and maintaining the security and database access strategies?  Software installations, version upgrades and patch applications?  Creating the users and roles as per the business requirements?  Performing RMAN backups and crash recoveries?  Maintaining Development, QA databases and regularly refreshing from production databases?  Monitoring Cold, Hot and RMAN backup scripts of the databases supporting different applications.?  Performed database cloning to setup test database.?  Used importdp/exportdp and SQL- loader to load data into tables?  Installation and Maintenance of Stand by database.?  Performing Transportable Tablespace Exports?  Trouble shooting and resolving of database issues?  Pl/SQL programming for Data migration between Distributed databases?  Shell Scripting and PERL Scripting?  Configuring TNS Names .ora and LISTENRS.ora for SQL.NET Connectivity?  Frequent interaction with Developers, and working with them in developing the applications using SQL Trace and EXPLAIN PLAN utilities.?  Moving databases between servers using DTS? ? ENVIRONMENT: Oracle 11g RAC, 10g RAC, 9i, 8i, HP-UX,UNIX, LINUX, SQL Server 2005, Win2k Oracle Database Administrator HSBC - IN - June 2006 to July 2007 Responsibilities:?  Provided 24*7 production support and on call rotation.?  Installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle 10g Databases.?  Maintenance of Oracle 110gData Guard 24*7 Production Environments.?  Developing and maintaining the security and database access strategies?  Software installations, version upgrades and patch applications?  Creating the users and roles as per the business requirements?  Performing RMAN backups and crash recoveries?  Maintaining Development, QA databases and regularly refreshing from production databases?  Monitoring Cold, Hot and RMAN backup scripts of the databases supporting different applications.?  Performed database cloning to setup test database.?  Used importdp/exportdp and SQL- loader to load data into tables?  Installation and Maintenance of Stand by database.?  Trouble shooting and resolving of database issues?  Pl/SQL programming for Data migration between Distributed databases?  Shell Scripting and PERL Scripting?  Configuring TNS Names .ora and LISTENRS.ora for SQL.NET Connectivity?  Frequent interaction with Developers, and working with them in developing the applications using SQL Trace and EXPLAIN PLAN utilities.? ? ENVIRONMENT: Oracle 11g RAC, 10g RAC, 9i, 8i, HP-UX,UNIX, LINUX, SQL Server 2005, Win2k Skills LINUX (10+ years), MS SQL Server (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), RMAN (10+ years), Scripting (10+ years) Additional Information Technical skills:? RDBMS: Oracle 12C RAC, 11g RAC, 10g RAC, 9i, 8i, SQL Server [?]? Specialization: OLTP, DSS, VLDB, Data Marts? Tools: Grid Control/OEM, TOAD, RMAN, SQL*Loader, DB Artisan, Export,? Import, Data Pump, ASM, VERITAS Cluster, EMC SAN, NAS, Goldengate, Quest, Big? Brother, MS SQL Management Studio, TSM, MS-SSIS, MS-SSRS, MS-SSAS? Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, Shell scripting,? O/S: Sun Solaris, HP-UX, IBM- AIX, Redhat/SUSE Linux, Windows Server [?]
Database Intern:::Database Intern Chicago, IL - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Database Intern Simerb Computer Technologies - Indore, WV - July 2014 to June 2015 Collected requirements from technical teams to develop database applications.? Created implementation plans for Oracle database upgrades.? Designed, coded, and implemented software solutions using Object Oriented Programming and SQL.? Collaborated with development team to ensure application performance for transactional databases.? Extracted, manipulated and retrieved data on a daily basis and generated reports.? Provided high-level database development assistance in creating specific applications for the business. Education Master's in Information technology and management ILLINOIS INSTITUE OF TECHNOLOGY - Chicago, IL May 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology RAJIV GANDHI PROUDYOGIKI VISHWAVIDYALAYA - Indore, Madhya Pradesh June 2015 Skills MS Office, Oracle SQL, Java, JavaFX, HTML, Sql Server, PL/SQL, R programming, Dreamweaver Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional Oracle Certified Associate Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS? Office Business Applications: MS Visio, MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel, MS Outlook? Database Knowledge: MYSQL Server, Oracle, MS Access, MS SQL Server 2008 R2? Operating Systems: Windows, MAC, Linux.? Programming Languages: SQL, PLSQL, HTML, CSS, Java, JavaFX, R programming? Software Tools: Eclipse, NetBeans, SQL Developer, Oracle, Dreamweaver? RELEVANT COURSEWORK?  Object Oriented App Development?  Object Oriented System Analysis, Modelling and design?  Advanced Topics in Data Management?  Data Warehouse?  Data Analytics?  Service Oriented Architecture
Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Database Administrator:::Database Administrator Database Administrator Belmont, CA - U.S Citizen, Available to relocate nationwide, Microsoft Certified SQL Server Database Administrator over 6+ years of experience in difference version [?] of SQL Server in Health Care, Investment Banking and Education industries is seeking SQL Server DBA position. Experience entails different aspects of SQL Server Database Administration including Installation, Backup, DR & HA Solution, Performance Tuning, Maintenance Plan, Automation Jobs, Security, Data Modeling, SSRS, SSIS for different SQL Server version on different Operating Systems. Well-versed in using third-party database management tools, as well as various database objects such as stored procedures, triggers, functions, Index, constraints and views etc. Recognized for solid work ethic, technical acumen, and ability to manage multiple priorities within diverse Willing to relocate: Anywhere Work Experience Database Administrator Kaiser Permanent - Belmont, CA - June 2016 to Present  Install, Configure, and Manage SQL Server 2005, 2008 R2, 2012?  Implement 2014 in Test environments?  Apply Service Packs/Hot Fixes on SQL Server?  Upgrade from SQL Server 2008R2 to SQL Server 2012 and 2014?  Migrate MS Access, Oracle 10g, MySQL 5.1.23 RDBMS into MS SQL Server?  Document the process of installation, apply service packs, upgrade and migration step?  Experience in Disaster recovery through backup/restore, point-in-time recovery?  Refresh Database as needed?  Configure and maintain HA options (Log shipping, mirroring, replication, clustering, Always On)?  Schedule jobs and create alerts as needed?  Create Server logins, database users, and implement Transparent Database Encryption (TDE)?  Configure Tempdb for better performance?  Configure Table Partitions to improve I/O access and performance?  Data compression and Shrink database as needed?  Monitor (Memory, CPU, Disk Utilization, I/O, Blocks, Deadlocks, Fragmentation, Long running query) to optimize database performance?  Rebuild, reorganize Index and update statistics at regular intervals?  Use DBCC and DMV to check database condition and consistency?  Experience in creating and modifying Indexes (Cluster/Non-Cluster), Constraints (Unique/Check) and Views?  Assist Database Developers to Optimize SQL queries and Stores Procedures.?  Write Ad hoc Transact-SQL scripts for reporting and maintenance?  Execute PowerShell Script to maintain the server and database?  Generate Ad-hoc Reports, Manage Reports Security, and deploy reports using SSRS?  Create Ad hoc package, configure different level of security and deploy package using SSIS?  Resolve issues reported by customers?  Administrate SharePoint? Environment: Microsoft Windows Cluster Server, Windows Server, XML, SQL Server Management Studio, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, Performance Monitor, SSRS, SSIS, MS Visio Database Administrator Citi Group - Long Island City, NY - June 2013 to May 2016  Strong knowledge and working experience in Database Backup and Disaster Recovery?  Installed, Configured and Managed SQL Server in Development, Test and Production environments?  Implemented and Maintained High Availability solutions, including Log Shipping, Mirroring, Replication and Clustering?  Developed, Deployed and Managed Reports using SQL Server Reporting Services?  Installed, Configured and Maintained SSIS for ETL processes and configured different levels of security in SSIS packages?  Upgraded SQL Server 2005 to 2008R2 and SQL server 2008R2 to 2012?  Database Migration from Oracle to SQL Server?  Applied Service Packs and Hot Fixes on SQL Server?  Setup automation jobs for different tasks such as monitor database health, disk space, backup verification, index monitoring and statistic monitoring?  Monitored Server Activity, Error Logs, space usage and solving problems as needed?  Created database Logins and Assign permissions to user roles, objects and Support column level permissions?  Imported data from multiple sources such as Flat file, CSV file, Oracle, My-SQL?  Used DBCCs to check database conditions and database Maintenance?  Highly experienced in writing and managing T-SQL codes and Stored-Procedure as well as creating and modifying tables, indexes, Constraints, View? Environment: SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2005 with clustering, T-SQL, Windows Server 2003R2/2008R2, DTS, Oracle, DTS, Excel, Access and IIS Database Administrator Department of Education - Washington, DC - November 2010 to April 2013  Installed, Configured and Managed SQL Server 2008R2, 2005?  Working experience in Database Backup and disaster recovery?  Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Clustering, database Mirroring?  Maintained Snapshot and Transaction Replication?  Migrated Oracle database and MY-SQL database to SQL Server2008r2?  Implemented Upgrade SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008R2?  Applied Service Pack/Fixes on SQL Server 2005 and 2008R2?  Practical work experience on Conceptual, Logical and Physical Data Model?  Maintained Logins, Roles, Authentication, Security polices and permissions to users?  Scheduled jobs to automate different task.?  Developed Maintenance Plans such as backup and restoration solutions, index management, fragmentation management, cleaning history, deleting old files?  Created and managed Index, Constraints keys (PK, FK)?  Monitored Server Activity, Error Logs, space usage and solving problems as needed?  Administered SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)?  Developed Ad-hoc Reports using Report Builder 3.0, 2.0?  Exported & Imported data from Flat file, CSV file to/from SQL Server Database using DTS, SSIS? Environment: SQL Server 2008R2/2005 SSIS, SSRS, T-SQL Education Masters in Economics University of Dhaka - Dhaka, Bihar Additional Information Technical Skills? ? Operating System Windows Server 2012, 2008r2, 2003? Database Administration SQL Server [?] MS Access 2007 and 2003? Database Migration Oracle (10gr2, 11gr2) / My-SQL [?] databases to SQL Server? ETL Tools SSIS/DTS? Performance Tuning Tools Query Execution Plan, Profiler, Database Tuning Advisor, Activity Monitor, Perfmon, SQL Server/Agent Error Log? Reporting/Analysis Tools SSRS, Crystal Report? Data Modeling Tools Erwin, VISIO, Toad Data Modeler? Scripting Tools PowerShell, Query Analyzer? Programming Languages Worked in C#, Java, ASP.NET, HTML and XML Environment? Networking Related Expertise? Managing User accounts using Active Directory, Implementation of TCP/IP, Configured workstations for IP based LAN TCP/IP, DNS, SMTP, and HTTP, Configured IIS 7.5
Sr. Software Engineer/ Database Architect;Sr. Software Engineer/ Consultant;Database Developer/ Consultant;Mobile App Developer/ Consultant;Sr. Software Engineer/ Consultant;Software Engineer/ Consultant;Data Driven Application Developer/ Consultant;Oracle Database Developer/Jr;Database Developer & Consultant;Database Manager & Developer:::Sr. Software Engineer/ Database Architect Sr. Software Engineer/ Database Architect - CrossMatch, Fremont -  Generated and retained tables, views, stored procedures, functions, triggers, constrains, indexes, scheduled jobs and linked servers?  Created and maintained data warehouse projects, snapshots, de-normalized tables, custom views, scheduled related jobs and events?  Designed and developed database architecture by using data modeling techniques such as Flowcharts, UML or Entity-Relationship diagrams and Normalization (up to 3N)?  Experienced in network, programming, database administration and development?  Solid knowledge of MS SQL DB, Oracle DB, MySQL, Postgres, TSQL, PL/SQL, PL/pgSQL, OOP (.net C#, Java) and Perl script?  Extensive experience working in a Scrum and Agile work environment?  Strong Structured Query Language programming skills?  Broad experienced in both technical and business aspects of Information Systems?  Highly proficient in critical thinking, troubleshooting and debugging?  Proficient in: SQL , ASP.NET, ADO.NET, C#, HTML5, PL/SQL, PL/pgSQL Transactional SQL, Java Scripting?  Familiar in: XML/HTML, Perl, PHP, Python, Classic ASP, C/C++, CGI, Visual Basic , JAVA, Bash Scripting?  Database: Oracle [?] MS SQL Server [?] MySQL, MongoDB, Redis, Postgres and SQLite Platforms: Win 8.x, Win 7, Win Vista, Win XP, Win 10, Win Server 2003, Win Server 2008, Win Server 2012, Win Server 2016, UNIX/Linux?  Servers: Cloud Services, Database, DNS, File, Mail, Proxy, Web Servers, Web Services?  Cloud Technologies: Amazon AWS, Azure, VMWare, MS Hyper-V, KVM Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer/ Database Architect CrossMatch, Fremont - December 2014 to Present Chief Architect and Administrator of Fremont Hypervisor and Cloud Dev Environment (VMWare, MS Hyper-V, KVM, AWS, Azure, Docker)? Software and Solution Architecture team member of the overall product offered?  Design and develop the Database utilized by company products?  Worked extensively with a magnitude of Database software such as SQL Server 2008, 2012, 2014 and 2016, MySQL 5.x & 6.x, MongoDB, Redis, SQLite and so forth.?  Created and Maintained database tables, views, stored procedures, functions, triggers, constrains, indexes and linked servers?  Designed, Setup and Maintained High Availability (HA), Failover, SAN, automated backup plans to satisfy availability, backup and disaster recovery plans?  Debug, troubleshoot and diagnose performance and bottlenecks issues in concern with the database? ? Environment: , SQL scripting, SQL Server 2008/2012/2016, MySQL, MongoDB, Redis, Windows 7/10/2008/2012/2016, Unix, Linux, ASP.Net, C#, Python, Web Services, MVC, TSQL, OOP, XML, JSON, EFT, SSH, VPN, Bash scripting, SOAP, RESTful, Docker, Hypervisor, Cloud Sr. Software Engineer/ Consultant Intel - Santa Clara, CA - September 2013 to December 2014  Mentored and managed other Software Engineers in group?  Played a key player in the development of data bridges for internal and external clients?  Utilized SOAP, XML, RESTful Services, JSON, Pub/Sub, Remote Procedure Calls (RPC)?  Worked internally with SQL Server 2008 & 2012 databases and externally with other DBs such as NoSQL, MongoDB and so forth.?  Created tables, views, stored procedures, functions, triggers, constrains, scheduled job and reports according to project requirements?  Utilizing Query Optimizer/Execution Plan to debug issues and achieve better performance?  Enhanced and maintained corporate web application using ASP.Net with C#, CSS, JavaScript and XML/HTML with SQL Server 2005, 2008 & 2012 database?  Worked with SSIS, IIS, Web Server Controls, CSS, XML and JSON on projects?  Used judgment in data analysis to develop and design solutions for complex processes according to specs, and performing unit and integration testing?  Planned, scheduled and completed work to meet the deadlines established by project coordinator to ensure the completion of vitally important projects to Intel and outside entities? ? Environment: ASP.Net, C#, Web Services, Web Forms, TSQL, OOP, Perl, Pub/Sub, SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, CSS, XML,JSON, HTML, Unix, Linux, Sendmail, SSH, Bash scripting, SOAP, RESTful Database Developer/ Consultant Financial Services Company (Confidential) - San Jose, CA - August 2010 to December 2014  Designed and developed financial software geared to the foreign currency exchange market?  Database used in the development of the back-end consisted of Oracle 11g/10g?  SQL and PL/SQL languages were used in the development of the project for the back-end?  Created tables, views, materialized views, stored procedures, functions, constrains, triggers, and indexes?  Developed predictive analytics/algorithms utilizing OLAP and historical data?  Snowflake and Star schema used in the design/development of the OLAP?  Tools used in performance tuning include but not limited to Memory Advisors, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Tuning Advisor and SQL Tuning Sets?  Optimized performance tuning using Indexes (including Function Based Indexes), Materialized Views, proper normalization and SQL Profile?  Tools used to build projects include SQL*Plus, Oracle SQL Developer, Enterprise Manager, Database Control, and Toad?  Current SDLC phase: maintenance (1 to 4 hours a month)? ? Environment: Oracle 11g/10g, SQL, PL/SQL, tables, views, materialized views, stored procedures, functions, constrains, triggers, indexes, OLAP, Snowflake, Star schema, Memory Advisors, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Tuning Advisor, Tuning, SQL*Plus, Oracle SQL Developer, Enterprise Manager, Database Control, Toad, SDLC Mobile App Developer/ Consultant Investment Company (Confidential ) - Sherman Oaks, CA - April 2013 to September 2013  Project involves development of native app for iPhone and Android mobile platforms?  Utilized HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, and JQuery for the app portion of the development?  Conversion of project into a native app was accomplished with the utilization of Phonegap?  ASP.NET, ADO.NET, C#, Cloud Coding in JavaScript, TSQL, SQL Server 2012 was utilized on the Server Side?  Web Services created to assist communication between app and Server Side?  HTTPS, SOAP and JSON utilized for the communication channels between app and Web Services?  Developed JSON serialization and de-serialization process for data communication?  Eclipse SDK, Dreamweaver 5.5, Visual Studio 2008/2012, SQL Server Management Studio, Komodo Edit, Uniform Server, and Chrome Ripple was used in the development process?  Current SDLC phase: maintenance? ? Environment: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, ASP.Net, ADO.NET, C#, Web Services, Cloud Services, Visual Studio, SQL Server 2008/2012, SQL Server Management Studio, TSQL, SQL Sr. Software Engineer/ Consultant Intel - Hillsboro, OR - September 2011 to March 2013  Developed and maintained ASP.Net with C# web services using MS Visual Studio 2008?  Required solid knowledge of SQL DB, TSQL, OOP (specifically .net C#) and Perl script?  Established back-end SQL Server 2005 & 2008 databases; Used languages SQL and TSQL on the back-end?  Created tables, views, stored procedures, functions, triggers and constrains according to design specifications?  Worked with Query Optimizer/Execution Plan to make software perform faster and more efficient?  Enhanced and maintained corporate web application using ASP.Net with C#, CSS, JavaScript and XML/HTML with SQL Server 2005 & 2008 database as the back-ends?  Advanced web based application utilizing SQL DB, TSQL and .net C# knowledge and experience?  Configured, modified and maintained Unix/Linux mail server (Sendmail) through SSH using Bash scripting, VI and Pico?  Developed mail services utilizing Bash/Perl script experience?  Operated with IIS, Web Server Controls, CSS and XML on ASP.NET projects?  Worked with Web Forms, Win Forms, MVC 3 and MVC 4?  Collaborated with local and global clients - responsible for gathering and analyzing user requirements, and coming up with solution?  Used judgment in data analysis to develop and design solutions for moderately complex processes according to specs, and performing unit and integration testing?  Planned and scheduled work to meet deadlines established by others to ensure the completion of several related tasks? ? Environment: ASP.Net, C#, Web Services, Web Forms, MVC, MS Visual Studio 2008, TSQL, OOP, Perl, SQL Server 2005/2008, SQL, CSS, XML, HTML, Unix, Linux, Sendmail, SSH, Bash scripting Software Engineer/ Consultant Intel - Hillsboro, OR - March 2010 to March 2011  Developed and maintained ASP.Net with C# web services using MS Visual Studio 2005/2008?  Used TFS and VSS for developing, maintaining and merging projects?  Established back-end SQL Server 2005 & 2008 databases; Used languages SQL and tSQL on the back-end?  Created tables, views, stored procedures, functions, triggers and constrains according to design specifications?  Enhanced and maintained corporate web application using ASP.Net with C#, CSS, and XML/HTML with SQL Server 2005 & 2008 database as the back-ends?  Configured, modified and maintained Unix/Linux mail server (Sendmail) through SSH using Bash scripting, VI and Pico?  Worked with IIS, Web Server Controls, CSS and XML on ASP.NET projects?  Collaborated with local and global clients - gathered business requirements for building new projects and modifying existing projects?  Operated with Query Optimizer/Execution Plan?  Debugged projects using SQL Profiler and Visual Studio debugger/tracer?  Assisted in Data Warehouse maintenance and development?  Worked in a Scrum environment? ? Environment: ASP.Net, C#, web services, MS Visual Studio 2005/2008, TFS, VSS, SQL, tSQL, CSS, XML, HTML, SQL, Server 2005 & 2008, Unix, Linux, Sendmail, Bash scripting, Visual Studio, Data Warehouse, Scrum Data Driven Application Developer/ Consultant Innovative Data Logic - Sunland, CA - October 2008 to December 2009  Met with organizations and analyzed their business and technical requirements?  Drew up plans for various Information System upgrade options?  Designed and developed the database structure for the chosen Information System option?  Databases used on projects were MS SQL and Oracle?  Programmed and developed the backend using SQL, tSQL, PL-SQL and Java?  Encoded and developed the frontend using PHP, HTML, C# and ASP.Net?  Extensive use of Web Forms on MS projects also including some MVC and Winforms?  Maintained and redesigned the Data Driven Applications at the company's request?  Tools used on projects include but not limited to Oracle Developer, Oracle Application Express, SQL*Plus, iSQL*Plus, Visual Studio, and Toad? ? Environment: MS SQL, Oracle, SQL, tSQL, PL-SQL, Java, PHP, HTML, C#, ASP.Net, MVC, Winforms, Data Driven Applications, Oracle Developer, Oracle Application Express, SQL*Plus, iSQL*Plus, Visual Studio, Toad Oracle Database Developer/Jr CallSource - Westlake Village, CA - August 2007 to September 2008 DBA?  Created custom reports for the company and its clients using SQL and PL/SQL?  Updated and maintained Oracle and MySQL databases?  Performed custom data retrieval (ETL) from production database?  Worked daily with VNC, VPN, Perforce, Salesforce, SSH, SQL Plus, and EM Scratchpad?  Added and updated data in the production database using XML, Perl, and SQL Loader?  Researched and troubleshoot critical issues that concerned both the company and production DB?  Worked with both the backend and the front-end (Web Apps) of the production database? ? Environment: SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, MySQL, ETL, VNC, VPN, Perforce, Salesforce, SSH, SQL Plus, EM Scratchpad, XML, Perl, SQL Loader Database Developer & Consultant WaterWise Consulting - Pasadena, CA - May 2005 to July 2007  Contracted on various database projects?  Designed, built and maintained various databases?  Developed database applications in MS Access?  Planned and created tables, queries, triggers, forms, and reports?  Utilized SQL, VB Script, and Macros on database projects? ? Environment: MS Access, tables, queries, triggers, forms, reports, SQL, VB Script, Macros Database Manager & Developer WaterWise Consulting - Northridge, CA - October 2006 to January 2007  Hired short-term to redesign problem databases?  Performed backup and recovery, and performance tuning?  Developed and maintained database applications?  Revamped database coding, table structure, and GUI?  Normalized databases that were incorrectly normalized?  Imaged lab computers using Altiris software? ? Environment: databases, backup, recovery, performance tuning, GUI, Altiris Education M.S. in Software Engineering in Software Engineering San Jose State University (SJSU) - San Jose, CA B.S. in Information Systems in Information Systems California State University Northridge (CSUN) - Northridge, CA
Database Engineer;Database Engineer;Deputy Lab Manager/Senior Database Engineer;Principal Consultant/Database Analyst;Database Administrator;Software Engineer/Database Administrator/Team Lead;Senior Application Developer;Technical Team Lead;Associate Staff Member;Programmer/Analyst;Programmer/Analyst:::Database Engineer Fairfax, VA - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Engineer TASC, Inc. / Engility Corporation - 2009 to Present Section Manager (2009 - 2016)? Serves as a technical advisor on all issues pertaining to full life-cycle of data/database administration from conception through implementation. Current duties include administration/monitoring/maintenance of multiple multi-terabyte databases using Oracle 11gR2 and 12c, while performing data extraction, transformation and loading (ETL) of data. The data, from multiple disparate sources, is loaded into a data warehouse to be used as a part of a risk analysis framework solution. Implements administrative policies and procedures and advises on the best technical methods of each. Currently working to migrate databases from 11g to 12c. Knowledgeable in multiple Oracle performance and tuning features, including the usage of Explain Plan, AWR Reports and partitioning. Installed Oracle 12c Cloud Control, which will be used by both System and Database Administrators to perform maintenance duties. Advises on requirements for data warehousing and data mining. Performed line management corporate duties, managing a section of 7 people, including timesheet approvals and performance reviews. Participated in several proposal efforts - duties included meeting with vendors to determine viability/teaming arrangements and creating staffing plans. Database Engineer Northrop Grumman/TASC, Inc - 2006 to 2009 Technical Team Lead (2008 - 2009)? Tasked with maintaining a legacy analysis and reporting application written in Pro*C, Perl and Unix shell scripts. Migrated a 300 Gigabyte HP Tru64 4.0F/Oracle 7.3.3 database to an Oracle 9.2.0.5 database running on Tru64 5.1B. Served as System Administrator on 4 HP Servers and 3 Sun Servers. Gathered requirements to determine future software/hardware migration path for both the database and legacy application. Designed a new database schema to replace the legacy analysis system. Worked with team to implement a network modeling tool. Deputy Lab Manager/Senior Database Engineer General Dynamics - Chantilly, VA - 1999 to 2006 Acted as the Lab Manager's proxy to perform all duties related lab daily operations. Performed installations, created/configured/administered databases on both Unix and Windows platforms and served as System Administrator on 8 HP ES40 and ES45 servers running HP Tru64. Assisted in a surge capacity to troubleshoot any manner of issues occurring on the client's production network. Extensive coordination with customers, developers and testers to verify/validate requirements. Participated in client-run approval boards to ensure successful deployment of applications. Provided database design advice where needed. Principal Consultant/Database Analyst Oracle Corporation - Herndon, VA - 1997 to 1999 Performed conversions from SQL*Forms Version 3.0 to Oracle Forms Version 4.5 on several legacy applications residing on a DecAlpha running OpenVMS. During this conversion, Y2K modifications to date fields and to date computations were also being performed. Performed database administration duties in support of several vendor "down selects" to choose new COTS packages for National Imagery and Mapping Agency (NIMA). Duties included: installation of Oracle and other COTS products and creation of test databases.? ? Professional Experience (Continued) Database Administrator MRJ Technology Solutions/Veridian Solutions - Oakton, VA - 1994 to 1997 Responsible for gathering requirements used for the installation and configuration of production and test databases, the creation of all database objects and the setup of backup/recovery strategies for a Data Warehousing Project to be used by the Patent and Trademark Office. Additionally responsible for gathering requirements for the purpose of design and development of a security system application written using Oracle v7.1.6 and NeXT NeXTSTEP O/S and application development tools (Now Apple Objective-C) . Coordinated integration of maintenance releases with configuration management staff, database administration staff and users. Participated in numerous system demonstrations and training sessions in several cities. Software Engineer/Database Administrator/Team Lead Patent and Trademark Office - 1994 to 1995 1995-1997)? Responsible for gathering requirements used for the installation and configuration of production and test databases, the creation of all database objects and the setup of backup/recovery strategies for a Data Warehousing Project to be used by the Patent and Trademark Office. Additionally responsible for gathering requirements for the purpose of design and development of a security system application written using Oracle v7.1.6 and NeXT NeXTSTEP O/S and application development tools (Now Apple Objective-C) . Coordinated integration of maintenance releases with configuration management staff, database administration staff and users. Participated in numerous system demonstrations and training sessions in several cities. Senior Application Developer Trident Data Systems - Oakton, VA - 1993 to 1994 Analyzed data and database schema from an existing system and wrote PL/SQL scripts to convert data from an Oracle V6 to an OracleV7 system. Scripts were then optimized using Oracle's Explain Plan. Technical Team Lead CBSI - Fairfax, VA - 1992 to 1993 Functioned as main point of contact with the client. Developed an application, containing SQL*Forms V3.0 screens, to track the approval process for foods, drugs, medical devices and veterinary medicines for the Food and Drug Administration. Wrote Work Plan, Milestone Chart, biweekly status reports and gathered requirements. Also designed and implemented a database system to track problem calls to WISDIM, which was a common data dictionary to be used by all Armed Services. Maintained the WISDIM custom application, written in ORACLE V6 using SQL*Forms V3.0. Associate Staff Member BDM International - McLean, VA - 1991 to 1992 Provided maintenance support on two sub-systems for the Strategic Defense Initiative Organization. These systems ran on a VAX/VMS mainframe using Oracle V5.1 and SQL*Forms V2.3. Programmer/Analyst Contel Federal Systems - Chantilly, VA - 1989 to 1991 Designed, developed and maintained internal procurement and inventory systems for Contel, written using Oracle V5.1 and SQL*Forms 2.3, SQL*Plus and RPT, housed on a VAX/VMS cluster of mainframes. Served as technical point of contact and was responsible for training new employees. Programmer/Analyst Salisbury Steel Products - Salisbury, MD - 1986 to 1989 Member of team tasked in the creation of a retail inventory tracking system using full life-cycle methodology. Written using the Oracle development suite, the system ran on a Data General MV/2000 and a MV/2500 under AOS/VS. Also provided backup system support for the client's MV/4000, which executed accounting and payroll programs. Education Oracle University May 2014 Bachelor of Science in Liberal Arts in Liberal Arts Salisbury State University 1986 Skills Database (10+ years), database design (7 years), ETL (8 years), EXTRACT, TRANSFORM, AND LOAD (8 years), SQL (7 years) Additional Information Core competencies include:? ? Database Design & Administration ? Database Performance Tuning? ? Scripting using C & SQL ? Data Modeling & Design? ? Database Migration ? Backup & Recovery Strategies? ? Exadata platform ? ETL and Data Analysis
Oracle Database Administrator;Database Administrator 3;Requirements Engineer/Technical Writer/Trainer/Database Administrator;Assistant Technical Editor/Mgmt Specialist/Software Engineer:::Oracle Database Administrator Aurora, CO - Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Colorado Community College System - Aurora, CO - August 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities?  Maintained and upgraded Colorado?s community college Oracle 11g databases and applications in production, test, and development environments as a member of a 3-person database team.?  Refreshed test and development Oracle 11g database environments.?  Provided support to database and web developers; coordinated software and application changes.?  Coordinated/implemented Banner Ellucian product database-related upgrades and patches/fixes.?  Updated Request For Change (RFC) documentation and maintained database change records.?  Researched Oracle security updates and provide installation recommendations.?  Provided on-call support on a rotational basis.?  Assisted with installing and configuring Oracle 12c and Oracle 12c Cloud Control in test. Database Administrator 3 Northrop Grumman - Aurora, CO - 2004 to 2013 Responsibilities?  Supported Oracle 10G and 11G databases in production, test, and development environments for government contracts, including 6 months with Oracle 11G grid, RAC, and ASM reconfiguration.?  Performed installations, upgrades, and security hardening for Oracle and SQL Server databases.?  Performed as lead DBA and web admin for SQL Server, SSRS and ColdFusion-based business management applications used across company sectors for financial tracking, planning, and control; employee time off tracking; labor forecasting; overhead labor forecasting; Sox Compliance issue tracking; employee awards process; weekly resource tracking and reporting; and contract risk management.?  Performed as lead DBA for MS Access personnel management tool used by hiring managers to track employees, their assignments, salaries, and annual review scores.?  Supported training department MS Access tool to track internal training events and attendance.?  Designed, developed, and tested Oracle forms and Oracle reports-based web enabled application used to maintain and report on employee data, organizational data, hardware data, and project risk data; and automated tools for internal detailed reporting and metrics.?  Led tier 3 Oracle database support efforts; wrote PL/SQL scripts, applied database patches, maintained development database environments, and provided general DBA support.?  Performed as lead technical investigator/writer for System Administration manual with emphasis on Oracle 11G database administration procedures.?  Participated in two database trade studies. Requirements Engineer/Technical Writer/Trainer/Database Administrator Northrop Grumman/TRW - Littleton, CO - 1996 to 2003 Responsibilities?  Maintained database models using ERWin for multiple large-scale systems; generated reports.?  Performed data analysis, factory loads, database script updates, and database administration.?  Participated as a member of the Engineering Review Board (ERB) for the database organization.?  Attended Technical Interchange meetings and assisted with recording major technical discussions.?  Tracked and maintained database engineering work packages.?  Coordinated with team members to maintain and trace requirements using the Requirements and Traceability Management (RTM) Tool on an Oracle RDBMS.?  Wrote SQL scripts to extract requirements for use by software, systems, and test organizations.?  Prepared quarterly requirement allocation and verification status reports for the client.?  Participated as a certified test conductor in army command and control ground system formal test.?  Verified test procedures and did dry runs for Operational Readiness Demonstration (ORD) testing.?  Developed training documentation for military intelligence system using the proprietary Training and Technical Material Development System (TMDS) and the Automated Systems Approach to Training (ASAT) database tools and trained end-users. Assistant Technical Editor/Mgmt Specialist/Software Engineer BDM/TRW - Boulder, CO - 1991 to 1996 Responsibilities?  Designed, developed, and tested forms-based database maintenance utility for large scale, FAA certified air traffic control system; wrote technical software user?s manual.?  Participated in full life cycle development of flight data processing functionality for an air traffic control system.?  Wrote data/object dictionary and database design documentation.?  Tracked and maintained engineering work packages.?  Coordinated and monitored software documentation effort; provided progress reports to management; and performed quality control duties.?  Assisted with configuration management and engineering process improvement efforts.?  Cataloged and maintained documentation library for contract and technical documents.?  Created presentation slides for air traffic control software and telecommunication courses.?  Edited and created software user?s manuals, technical documents, proposals, memos, and letters. Education Master's Information Systems University of Denver Bachelor's of Business Administration - Information Systems and Marketing University of Colorado at Colorado Springs - Colorado Springs, CO Skills Oracle 11G (10+ years), Oracle 10G (5 years), SQL Server (5 years), Oracle Forms (5 years), Oracle Reports (5 years), SSRS (5 years), Coldfusion (2 years), PL/SQL (5 years), T-SQL (5 years), Technical Writing (5 years), Linux (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Oracle 12c new features (Less than 1 year), Customer Service (4 years), Creative Writing (10+ years) Groups Rocky Mountain Orace User's Group September 2016 to Present Publications Moonlight Dreamers of Yellow Haze https://www.amazon.com/Moonlight-Dreamers-Yellow-Haze-Contemporary-ebook/dp/B01CZ3ROPI April 2016 An anthology of poetry from new and experienced poets around the world. Online Tuck Magazine http://tuckmagazine.com/2016/04/08/poetry-308/ April 2016 Published two poems in this online magazine. Indiana Voice Journal December 2016 3 poems published in the Indiana Voice Journal's December 2016 edition. Dandelion in a Vase of Roses https://www.amazon.com/Dandelion-Vase-Roses-Anthology-Countries/dp/1545352089/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1498666892&sr=8-1&keywords=dandelion+in+a+vase+of+roses April 2017 An anthology of poetry by poets around the globe.
Database Specialist;Certified Shelby Trainer;Administrative Assistant:::Database Specialist Database Specialist - Park Cities Presbyterian Church Dallas Colleyville, TX - Marital Status: Don Michael Allen? Children: Heather, Aaron Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Specialist Park Cities Presbyterian Church Dallas - November 2005 to Present Provide support for both Shelby and Arena databases including but not limited to supporting? all ministry areas in every aspect of Arena, create and run data files for mailings, create and support online registrations, train staff in the logic of creating basic lists and using Arena, Word and Excel and meet with ministry leadership to determine how Arena would best support their projects. Certified Shelby Trainer Self Employed - 1998 to November 2003 As a Shelby Trainer I have been involved in setting up software for churches. This includes? new users and converting other churches to Shelby. I worked as a consultant for church? office administration in performing all task. I have worked with church volunteers, committees, leadership development, spiritual gifts inventory, membership tracking, stewardship tracking and every phase of office work.? ? I have been performing non-profit fund accounting since 1987. I have trained churches on Accounts Payables, Payroll, Bank Reconcilation, tracking of pledges and general Contribution posting. I have trained on all non-financial Shelby software as well. Administrative Assistant Fellowship Baptist Church - Grand Prairie, TX - 1987 to November 2003 I have worked as an Administrative Assistant at Fellowship Baptist Church.? ? My administrative work at FBC required me to oversee the general ledger, accounts payable,? check express, bank reconciliation, posting of contributions and all membership information into Shelby Systems. I also produce the worship folder, church calendar and managed church website. I was the purchasing agent for the church as well.? ? Fellowship Baptist Church allowed me to continue being a Consultant for Shelby Systems during my employment with them and was flexible with my hours. Skills Proficient in Microsoft Office, Arena web based software, Shelby (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Was a licensed certified Shelby Trainer 1998 to 2003 Certified Shelby Trainer till November 2003. Set up software and trained churches in both financial and non financial software.
Database Analyst;Site Administrator;Manager;Helpdesk Support Specialist;Manager:::Database Analyst Clearfield, UT - Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Analyst Unisys - Salt Lake City, UT - 2015 to Present Tier 2 Application Support (December 2015 - Present)?   Update and maintain information on the Microsoft Learning Database?   Screen share directly with customers to investigate problems on the client side.?  Work as a team to organize data and increase knowledge on issues.?  Manage relations between 3rd party companies and customers.?   Organize calls with the Microsoft Business Team and document changes in process.?   Update, Delete, Create and Modify SQL queries on the database.?   Manage alerts on the database and verify scripts ran on the SQL production server?  Advise the L3 agents and SDM's of trends and issues we are seeing to prevent major? incidents. Site Administrator Evara Studios - 2014 to Present  Present new content on the site in an orderly fashion?  Monitor and manage analytics?  Compile reviews and newest technology. Manager Evara Studios - Syracuse, UT - 2004 to Present Filming and capturing the moments and sequences the customer has requested ?  Editing images with Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Premiere to create vivid visual?  memories. Wedding videos, vacations, and special occasions are my specialty. ?   Ensure that there are no problems with files being transferred between Mac and PC ?  Back up any data that has been created and keep them up as up to date as possible to?  avoid possible problems later. ?  Maintain the integrity of the computers and equipment. Ensure that there are no viruses? or malware to slow the computer or equipment down. Clean out dust and particles out of?  the computers to maintain longevity. ?   Set-up the company website and maintain it with current photos. ?  Use social media to contact new customers and keep in touch with current customers.  Helpdesk Support Specialist Unisys-Microsoft Division - Salt Lake City, UT - February 2015 to December 2015 Provide support to customers over the phone and on chat to troubleshoot a wide variety?  of problems. ?  Document all findings in the ticketing system in an organized and grammatically correct?  manner. ?   Help fellow co-workers answer questions about any issues they encounter. ?   Make sure that process is followed and the Knowledge Base is up to date and correct. ?   Provide good customer service and make sure that the client has a good experience. ?   Provide support to clients over chat and gauge their frustration level ?  Advise the L2 agents and Managers of trends that we are seeing as agents to prevent? major outages.  Manager Royal Coach Detailing Inc - Syracuse, UT - 2006 to 2015 Full Automotive Detailing, ?  Manage accounts and deal with any scheduling conflicts, get all necessary information?  from customers and meet or exceed their expectations. ?  Communicate with Customers one on one, make sure that they are happy with the job? that has been done, fix any problems with frustrated customers due to communication?  problems or otherwise. ?  Email customers invoices and call to remind them of the scheduled appointments. Do?  follow up calls to ensure customer satisfaction. ?  Manage Employees, make sure they stay on task and focused. Schedule any days off with them and set a calendar. Build teamwork within the employees to streamline the? work process. Ensure that employees are following protocol and that they can stay on?  schedule with customer's needs. ?  Maintain Supplies and Equipment, keep work vehicles clean and in working order, do any oil changes necessary on equipment or vehicles, record inventory on chemicals and?  keep them in stock. ?  Ran most of the company for 6 months in 2010 while the owner was away.  Education Business/Multimedia Tech Weber State University 2005 to 2015 Layton High School - Layton, UT 2001 to 2004 Skills Adobe Photoshop (10+ years), Adobe Premiere (10+ years), Mac (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Premiere (10+ years), Microsoft Certified Professional (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS: Microsoft MCP Certified, Experienced in Mac and Windows operating systems, knowledge? in software such as Adobe Premiere, Adobe Photoshop, SQL 2014, Microsoft Office. Great? customer service and leadership. Knowledge on configuring routers and modems as well as? setting up media centers to stream audio and video to TV. Setting up websites and blogs.
Owner;Owner;Assistant Manager;Database Programmer;Intern:::Owner Owner - Business I.T. LLC Fishers, IN - I am an innovative programmer with a background in management. I am available for immediate opportunities to develop and grow a rewarding career in creating, managing and servicing program accounts. Three years experience in developing and deploying Microsoft SQL Database VBA/VB.NET/ASP.NET projects while providing end user support through collaboration. Additional experience includes working with a networking team implementing administrator functions to customize Windows computers for employees.? ?  Business owner?  Manager?  Program developer?  Sales?  Productivity controls?  Accountability?  Innovative program design Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Owner Business I.T. LLC - 2016 to Present ASP.NET/VB.NET/VBA/SQL/Desktop/Mobile Owner Residential House Cleaning LLC - 2000 to Present  New account acquisition?  Servicing accounts?  Management?  Bookkeeping?  Scheduling Assistant Manager POOLS OF FUN - Noblesville, IN - 2014 to 2016  Sales quotas?  Customer service?  Employee management?  Cash management Database Programmer AgReliant Genetics - Westfield, IN - 2010 to 2012  SQL?  JavaScript?  ASP.NET?  VB.NET?  VBA?  Azure?  PHP?  Citrix?  Networking Intern Anacore Technologies - 2009 to 2010  Adobe Flex?  Photoshop?  Accounting?  Documentation Education B.S. in Information Technology/Business IUPUI Additional Information Corporate Production Microsoft SQL Database VB.NET/VB.NET/ASP.NET Projects upon request
Assistant Logistics Manager;Reports Analyst;Database Manager-:::Assistant Logistics Manager Assistant Logistics Manager Fort Worth, TX - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Assistant Logistics Manager AECOM National Security Program Afghanistan - Kabul, Afghanistan - May 2012 to March 2013 Afghanistan?  Coordinated travel arrangements for assets and personnel?  Reviewed expense reports, requests, and invoices for accuracy and restructured department filing system?  Responded to customer requests and complaints and created spreadsheets, ad-hoc reports, correspondence and form letters Reports Analyst AECOM National Security Program Afghanistan - Kabul, Afghanistan - April 2011 to May 2012 Created analytical reports in support of regional commands in CENTCOM? Consolidated and disseminated analytical products to assist US Army Operations? Reviewed and finalized products for use in regional assessment briefings Database Manager- ABSC National Ground Intelligence Center - Counter Insurgency Targeting Program - Charlottesville, VA - December 2010 to April 2011  Managed database for the Counter Insurgency Targeting Program (CITP)?  Produced CITP related assessments and target support packages in collaboration with analysts?  Researched, evaluated, and integrated all-source data to contribute to finished all-source assessments Education BA in Spanish University of North Texas August 2018 BA in Concentrations Integrative Studies University of North Texas - Denton, TX January 2015 to December 2016
Role Senior Oracle Database Administrator;Senior Oracle Database Administrator;Senior Oracle Database Administrator;Senior Oracle Database Administrator;Senior ORACLE Database Administrator;ORACLE Database Administrator;Technical Services Professional;Technical Services Professional:::Role Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle Database Administrator - InBiz Concepts Quincy, MA -  11+ years of experience in Oracle Database Administration (8i, 9i, 10g, 11g and 12c)?  Experienced in Installing and Configuring Oracle Database in various platforms.?  Provide support for all Oracle database environments that include problem identification, reporting, tracking, analysis, and resolution.?  Architect, design, and implement replication and/or data synchronization for each application through Goldengate and Dataguard.?  Installed and configured 11g/12c Grid infrastructure on various platforms.?  Provided architecture design and implemented the all production database replication, backup and contingency recovery strategies for all OLTP Data Warehouse databases in the company.?  Designed and implemented disaster recovery plan using standby databases and resolving issues in standby databases.?  Configured Dataguard broker for high availability.?  Installed, Configured [?] RAC databases on Exadata X3/X5/X6 and configuring new build servers for RAC adhering to the process of project.?  Installed and configured Goldengate setup in various environment by achieving the real-time data replication.?  Upgraded Goldengate from 11g version to 12c Version.?  Supporting and troubleshooting the replication issues caused by Goldengate replication which includes implementation and support.?  Implemented data flow between oracle and Hadoop through journaling by using ORACLE DATA INTEGRATOR.?  Extensive experience in database upgrades manually, also using DBUA and exp/imp (in place upgrade & out of place upgrade).?  Applying CPU, PSU and other bug fix patches using opatch utility, rolling patch using auto on [?]?  Database refresh and cloning using RMAN Backups and Recovery Procedures, Database Import/Export and DATAPUMP utilities.?  Successfully migrated various RAC database (around 35 TB) with Dataguard from HP machine to Exadata with minimal downtime.?  Successfully upgraded Exadata Firmware on compute servers and Cell servers.?  Configured and carved ZFS storage for Exadata Environment.?  Monitoring and solving the Database performance issues.?  Generating AWR, ADDM Reports for the analyzing the performance issue and providing the appropriate solution.?  Experiences in installing and configuring oracle 11g/12c Enterprise Manager (OEM).?  Discovering the new database, ZFS and Exadata targets through OEM and applying monitoring the template.?  Installing and configured agents, OSwatcher on various production servers.?  Written shell scripts for monitoring Databases heal checks and issues.?  Installed, Configured and upgraded ETL tools like OWB, OBIEE to latest Version.?  Installed and Maintained Oracle Application Express(APEX), Application Server and Weblogic Server.?  Implemented Configuration settings for SSL and SSO on Various Applications.?  Created scripts for database backup, recovery, refresh and monitoring.?  Worked on various Ticket Handling tools like REMEDY, JIRA, MAXIMO, SERIVCENOW for project planning & day to day work assignments.?  Developed and maintained system and technical documents.?  Good analytical and communication skills and ability to work independently.?  Good Team player and quick learner, having excellent interpersonal skills. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Role Senior Oracle Database Administrator InBiz Concepts - Boston, MA - June 2017 to Present Senior Oracle Database Administrator British Gas - London, UK - January 2015 to May 2017 Project Description:? British Gas is the largest UK energy and home services company. Which supplies gas and electricity, boilers as well as other home services. We provided full-fledged support to all production database in CRM and ISU module with all latest oracle technologies like oracle 12c RAC, Exadata X6 with oracle 12c Goldengate? ? Responsibilities:?  Installed, configured 11gR2/12C RAC databases on Exadata X3/X5/X6 and configuring new build servers for RAC adhering to the process of project.?  Designed and implemented disaster recovery plan using standby databases and resolving issues in standby databases.?  Configured Dataguard broker for high availability.?  Experiences in installing and configuring oracle 11g/12c Enterprise Manager (OEM).?  Applied SAP Bundle Patches to all SAP production database.?  Upgrading and patching the oracle instances to the latest version.?  Troubleshooting and fixing the failed process in Goldengate setup.?  Creating and managing physical standby databases.?  Used the standby database for doing different operations like taking backups, recoveries, collecting statistics and running various reports without disturbing the production databases.?  Discovering the new database, ZFS and Exadata targets through OEM and applying monitoring the template.?  Installing and configured agents, OSwatcher on various production servers.?  Writing shell scripts to automate backup and database monitoring.?  Contacting oracle Metalink Support in case of major technical assistance.?  Successfully upgraded Exadata Firmware on compute servers and Cell servers.?  Configured and carved ZFS storage for Exadata Environment.?  Taking care of all other Database Request in the form of Problem and Change Management as per the ITIL process.?  Responsible for scheduling appropriate changes for the servers and implement that with the proper approval at the scheduled time.?  Mentor junior DBAs on maintenance and monitoring tasks.? ? Environment: Oracle Database 9i/10g/11g/12c, 11g/12C RAC, Dataguard, DG Broker, RMAN, 12c/11g Enterprise Manager, 12c Goldengate, ZFS, Exadata X3/X5/X6 Senior Oracle Database Administrator British Gas - January 2015 to December 2015 Project Description:? Carefirst is the largest health care insurer in the Mid-Atlantic region, serving 3.2 million members. The mission of CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield is to provide health benefit services of value to customers across the region comprised of Maryland and the National Capital Area. We provided full-fledged support to all production using various oracle technologies like oracle 11g RAC, Exadata X3, 12c oracle 11g Goldengate.? ? Responsibilities:?  Installing and configuring RAC databases as per client's requirement.?  Configuring the monitoring setup by using Oracle 12c enterprise manager.?  Upgrading and patching the instances to the latest version.?  Troubleshooting and fixing the failed jobs in Goldengate.?  Creating and managing physical standby databases.?  Used the standby database for doing different operations like taking backups, recoveries, collecting statistics and running various reports without disturbing the production databases.?  Implemented EM alerts to monitor the database to ensure maximum availability and peak Performance.?  Experienced in data backups, Restore/Recovery activity on many critical production databases with and without using RMAN.?  Writing shell scripts to automate backup and database monitoring.?  Contacting oracle Metalink Support in case of major technical assistance.?  Taking care of all other Database Request in the form of Problem and Change Management as per the ITIL process.?  Responsible for scheduling appropriate changes for the servers and implement that with the proper approval at the scheduled time.? ? Environment: Oracle Database 9i/10g/11g, 11g RAC, Dataguard, DG Broker, RMAN, 12c/11g Enterprise Manager, 11g Goldengate Senior Oracle Database Administrator Comcast Corporation - Philadelphia, PA - December 2012 to December 2014 Project Description:? Comcast Corporation is an American global telecommunications conglomerate that is the largest broadcasting and cable television company in the world by revenue. We provided full-fledged support to all production using various oracle technologies like oracle 11g RAC, oracle 11gGoldengate.? ? Responsibilities:?  Installing and configuring Grid Infrastructure on various platforms and created RAC database as per client request.?  Configuring the monitoring setup by using Oracle 12c enterprise manager.?  Applying CPU, PSU and other bug fix patches using opatch utility, rolling patch using auto on 11gR2.?  Database refresh and cloning using RMAN Backups and Recovery Procedures, Database Import/Export and DATAPUMP utilities.?  Used the standby database for doing different operations like taking backups, recoveries, collecting statistics and running various reports without disturbing the production databases.?  Implemented EM alerts to monitor the database to ensure maximum availability and peak Performance.?  Experienced in data backups, Restore/Recovery activity on many critical production databases with and without using RMAN.?  Writing shell scripts to automate backup and database monitoring.?  Contacting oracle Metalink Support in case of major technical assistance.?  Taking care of all other Database Request in the form of Problem and Change Management as per the ITIL process.?  Good analytical and communication skills and ability to work independently.?  Good Team player and quick learner, having excellent interpersonal skills.? ? Environment: Oracle Database 9i/10g/11g/12c, 11g RAC, Dataguard, RMAN, 12c/11g Enterprise Manager, Shell Scripting Senior ORACLE Database Administrator Worldwide Alliances & Channels, California, USA - January 2010 to November 2012 Project Description:? Worldwide Alliances & Channels has been specifically created for Oracle PartnerNetwork (OPN) members who develop and implement solutions based on Oracle products and services. It is a place where you can find all the relevant programmatic material and especially the Oracle EMEA Partner Communities that have been designed and built specifically for Oracle Partners.? ? Responsibilities:?  Upgraded and patched the instances to the latest version.?  Converting Non-RAC database to RAC manually and using DBCA.?  Written shell scripts for monitoring Databases.?  Solving different databases related issues like taking care of different processes consuming high CPU resources, listener and connect string etc.?  Configured Dataguard broker for high availability.?  Provided system support like installing and configuring oracle Linux on Dell machines.?  Experiences in installing and configuring oracle 11g/12c Enterprise Manager (OEM).?  Participated in Development Work using Oracle Application Express and PL/SQL?  Implemented Configuration settings for SSL and SSO on Various Applications.?  Installed and upgraded Apex to latest Version on various platforms.?  Installed, Configured and upgraded OWB to latest Version in various Platforms.?  Installed, Configured and upgraded OBIEE to latest Version.?  Installed web logic server and configuring managed server on the weblogic server.?  Overall taking care of all system, Database and Application Request.?  Troubleshooting network connectivity issues various performance issues as reported by client.? ? Environment: Oracle Database 9i/10g/11g, Oracle Application Express, Oracle Application Server, Oracle Business Intelligence (OBIEE), Oracle Enterprise Manager, Oracle Warehouse Builder (OWB), Weblogic Server. ORACLE Database Administrator Pearson, New Jersey, USA - January 2009 to December 2009 Project Description:? Pearson Education is a British-owned education publishing and assessment service to schools and corporations, as well as directly to students. Providing 24X7 support for the all production database.? ? Responsibilities:?  Created and Maintained Database as per the customer requirements.?  Monitored database and collected statistics by using EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL Trace.?  Used Utilities like DB Verify, TKPROF to identify the corruptions.?  Configured Standby Database for high availability and replicated the data into the standby database.?  Database upgradation, migration and Applying patches.?  Manage scheduling of the jobs using unix crontab.?  Configured RMAN backups to TSM servers.?  Performed online & offline backups using RMAN, oracle export/import as a method of recovering data and individual's objects.?  Refreshed the databases using Import utility and RMAN Cloning.?  Automated the backup scripts, Table space monitoring scripts etc.?  Work with the team to automate reactive procedures where possible and to promote rapid response to know issues.?  Ensured day to day administration and support for the information technology environment to maximize the system availability for our clients and users.?  Primary task is to handle the Remedy ticketing tool to solve the oracle issues with the phase of Incident management, Change Management and problem Management.?  As part of team which works on identifying the defects and performing the root cause analysis to avoid repeated issues in future.?  Knowledge on Oracle Support Process for Technical requests using Metalink and other support procedures.?  Running daily database status reports and sending reports to clients.? ? Environment: Oracle Database 9i/10g/11g, Oracle 10g RAC, Dataguard, RMAN, TDP Technical Services Professional British Petroleum - London, UK - January 2008 to December 2008 Project Description:? BP is one of the world's leading integrated oil and gas companies which is providing customers with fuel for transportation, energy for heat and light across the world's energy system which is having operations in Europe, North and South America, Australasia, Asia and Africa. Where we are providing the database support all OLTP and OLAP database? ? Responsibilities:?  Created and Maintained Database as per the customer requirements.?  Performed online & offline backups using RMAN, oracle export/import as a method of recovering data and individual's objects.?  Monitored database and collected statistics by using EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL Trace.?  Used Utilities like DB Verify, TKPROF to identify the corruptions.?  Configured Standby Database for high availability and replicated the data into the standby database.?  Database upgradation, migration and Applying patches.?  Manage scheduling of the jobs using unix crontab.?  Configured RMAN backups to TSM servers.?  Resolved the Dataguard gap sequence by using RMAN recovery from incremental backups.?  Cloned various database by using RMAN DUPLICATE utility.?  Refreshed the databases using Import utility and RMAN Cloning.?  Automated the backup scripts, Table space monitoring scripts etc.?  Work with the team to automate reactive procedures where possible and to promote rapid response to know issues.?  Ensured day to day administration and support for the information technology environment to maximize the system availability for our clients and users.?  Primary task is to handle the change/incident ticketing tool to solve the oracle issues with the phase of Incident management, Change Management and problem Management.?  As part of team which works on identifying the defects and performing the root cause analysis to avoid repeated issues in future.?  Raising Service request with ORACLE SUPPORT and providing the information for resolving the issue? ? Environment: Oracle Database 9i/10g/11g, Oracle 10g RAC, Dataguard, RMAN, TDP Technical Services Professional Celestica - Toronto, ON - June 2007 to December 2007 Project Description:? Celestica Inc. is a Canadian multinational electronics manufacturing services (EMS) company headquartered in Toronto, Ontario. Celestica's global manufacturing network comprises more than 20 locations in 11 countries in the Americas, Europe and Asia, delivering end-to-end product lifecycle solutions. Where we are providing the database support all OLTP and OLAP database? ? Responsibilities:?  Created and Maintained Database as per the customer requirements.?  Creating Users and Managing User access and privileges with roles.?  Monitored database and collected statistics by using EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL Trace.?  Used Utilities like DB Verify, TKPROF to identify the corruptions.?  Configured Standby Database for high availability and replicated the data into the standby database.?  Database upgradation, migration and Applying patches.?  Manage scheduling of the jobs using unix crontab.?  Configured RMAN backups to TSM servers.?  Performed online & offline backups using RMAN, oracle export/import as a method of recovering data and individual's objects.?  Refreshed the databases using Import utility and RMAN Cloning.?  Automated the backup scripts, Table space monitoring scripts etc.?  Work with the team to automate reactive procedures where possible and to promote rapid response to know issues.?  Ensured day to day administration and support for the information technology environment to maximize the system availability for our clients and users.?  Primary task is to handle the Remedy ticketing tool to solve the oracle issues with the phase of Incident management, Change Management and problem Management.?  As part of team which works on identifying the defects and performing the root cause analysis to avoid repeated issues in future.?  Knowledge on Oracle Support Process for Technical requests using Metalink and other support procedures.?  Running daily database status reports and sending reports to clients.? ? Environment: Oracle Database 9i/10g/11g, Oracle 10g RAC, Dataguard, RMAN, TDP Education Master of Engineering in Engineering Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2006 Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Manonmaniam Sundaranar University - Tirunelveli, Tamil Nadu May 2004 Skills Database (10+ years), OEM (5 years), Oracle (10+ years), RMAN (8 years), SQL (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills? Database Oracle 8i,9i,10g ,11g,12c, SQL [?] MS Access? Language PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Script? Tools? SQL*Plus, SQL*Loader, SQL*Developer, Toad, OEM, RMAN, DBCA, DBUA, NETCA, NID, ASMCMD, Expdp&Impdp, DGMGRL, ADRCI, GGSCI, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM? ? Operating System Solaris, Redhat Linux, HP tru64, HP AIX, WINDOWS [?]
CMS Migrator;Database Report Writer;Software Engineer:::CMS Migrator Salt Lake City, UT - To get a position empowering me to utilize my communication, leadership, people's and technical skills for? organization's and my development. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience CMS Migrator Utah State University - Logan, UT - February 2017 to Present Liaising with the clients to understand, identify & define project requirements, scope & objectives. Collaborate with team members, various stakeholders like Custom Programmers, System Administrators? Migrate multiple sites simultaneously while providing technical support to the clients? Migrating the websites from Ez-Plug & wordpress to OU-Campus, designing web pages in HTML, CSS, fixing bugs, & broken links in the web pages Database Report Writer Utah State University - Logan, UT - January 2016 to January 2017  Created reports based on adhoc requests from clients using Millennium, Crystal reports?  Executed complex SQL queries for reporting and optimized code to improve performance and deploy them to server?  Automated excel tasks using macros and VBA scripting and performed data analysis creating pivot charts Software Engineer Cybage Software - Pune - June 2014 to May 2015  Liaising with clients, analyze technical problems and provide business solutions?  Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as a Business Analyst and developer- gathering requirements, coding, testing and deploying?  Handled data requests for weekly, monthly and quarterly reports using MSSQL?  Followed Agile methodologies for all business processes in the team Education Master in Management Information Systems Utah State University - Logan, UT May 2017 Bachelor in Electronics and Telecommunications Institute of Computer Technology - Pune, Maharashtra June 2014 Associate in Electronics and Telecommunications AISSMS Polytechnic - Pune, Maharashtra July 2008 to June 2011 Skills CSS (Less than 1 year), DATABASE (Less than 1 year), DJANGO (Less than 1 year), HTML (1 year), Scrum (Less than 1 year), Excel (2 years), Powerpoint (2 years), Python (Less than 1 year), bootstrap (Less than 1 year), Agile (Less than 1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sonali-kashid-209047125 Certifications/Licenses Risk Management April 2017 to Present https://www.udemy.com/certificate/UC-QKMUIKPI/ Tableau Desktop May 2017 to Present Online course on Udemy.com | License url: https://www.udemy.com/certificate/UC-IH6TPLGP/ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS? Tools: Tableau, Rapid Miner, SQL Server 2014 Management Studio? Packages: MS Excel (Data Analysis Using Pivot Tables), MS Access, MS Word, MS Power Point, MS Outlook? Methodologies: Agile-Scrum? Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap? Languages: Python , C++, C, SQL ? Operating Systems: MAC OS, Windows 10, Windows 9, Window 8, Window 7? Frameworks: Django, Hadoop
Senior Database analyst;Senior Database Administrator;Senior database administrator, IT/Enterprise systems;Senior Database Administrator;Senior Database Administrator;IT Principal Database Administrator - Global systems architecture group;Pre-production DBA/Staging DBA;Principal consultant;Task force DBA, Group leader of international DBA team;Oracle DBA;Principal Database Administrator;Senior consultant, Cap Gemini Norway;Product manager;Oracle DBA;Programmer/DBA DB2:::Senior Database analyst Senior Database Administrator San Mateo, CA -  Proven Oracle Expert with 21 years of DBA experience. ?  Long and strong experience of Oracle Database (core) v.7x ? 11g, up to date in new features. Experience on large databases 10TB+?  Strong understanding and interest in methods and procedures. ?  Solid capabilities in planning and executing projects. ?  Solid network of professionals of all levels.?  Broad experience in using project methods/procedures internal and external.?  Strong skills in configuration management, change management and test management.?  Solid communicating skills, written and spoken.?  Thorough experience in all phases of systems development on different technical platforms.?  Experience of using Golden gate?  Support of MSSQL server databases on admin level 4 yesars?  Exposure to MySql?  Creative problem solver. Work Experience Senior Database analyst Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco - San Francisco, CA - May 2012 to Present Responsibilities? Install/maintain/upgrade Oracle database 9i/10g/11g? Maintaining Federal Reserve's production databases? Implementation of high availability using physical standby? Maintain RAC instances on Aix? Implement logical/physical data model to physical database schemas.? Migrate databases to more powerful servers? ? Accomplishments? Created tools for automation Senior Database Administrator Sephora IT Department - San Francisco, CA - December 2008 to Present Role Description/Responsibilities:? ? Install/maintain/upgrade Oracle database 9i/10g/11g? Maintaining Sephora?s production databases including sephora.com? Implementation of high availability using physical standby? Install RAC instances on Windows platforms? Implement logical/physical data model to physical database schemas.? Migrate windows RAC to Redhat Linux Rac? Migrate databases to more powerful servers Senior database administrator, IT/Enterprise systems Sephora - San Francisco, CA - 2009 to March 2013 Sephora. Senior Database Administrator Pacific Gas & Electric - San Francisco, CA - April 2007 to December 2009 Role Description/Responsibilities?  Installed/maintained/upgraded Oracle database 9i/10g?  Work with PG&E's clients implementing databases with new technologies?  Implemented high availability using failover database?  Install RAC instances?  Data Guards.? Role: Oracle DBA Senior Database Administrator Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA - May 2006 to April 2007 Role Description/Responsibilities?  Installed/maintained/upgraded Oracle database 9i/10g?  Worked with Wells Fargo customers implementing databases using new technologies.?  Implemented high availability using failover database?  Install RAC instances?  Installed ASM.? Role: Oracle DBA IT Principal Database Administrator - Global systems architecture group Oracle Corporation - Redwood Shores, CA - September 2002 to February 2006 Concurrent with other tasks?  Supported 150+ databases (9i/10g) for internal Apps, Oracle's E-business suite on multiple Unix platforms such as SunOs, HP and Linux. Operated DBA daily tasks based on ticket system?  Installed Oracle version 9i, 10g using OUI and cloning?  Setup new environments; planned and executed said plan; everything from staging the database, setting up listeners, DB file system (SA's set up files system in advance), init.ora, backup schedule, crontab, monitoring etc.?  Upgraded to 9i/10g from earlier versions using "best practice" procedures.?  Cloned and decommissioned databases, configured databases to fulfil OFA standards?  Set up of RAC on Sun & Linux platforms?  Set up Data Guard on SunOs, Linux?  Programmed shell scripts for automation/monitoring/reporting purposes?  Programmed PL/SQLunits for various tasks, mostly reporting and "washing" of data?  P-rotation duties, patching RDBM's and $APPL_TOP patches?  Extensive use of Unix for "SA" tasks as a DBA like cloning databases across boxes, using shell scripts, copying etc.?  Performed recovery of database after crash/clone?  Performance tuning?  Troubleshoot databases/environments?  Worked on client problems (project based mostly); logging bugs, getting traces, following up bugs.? Installed/maintained/upgraded Oracle database 9i/10g? Developed, maintained, documented and taught administration tools and strategies? Developed/maintained performance tuning strategies? Developed/maintained patching routines? Worked with internal applications team staff to implement new systems and resolve problems? Established and maintained security and integrity controls, including SOX compliance? Updated new technologies and methods/concepts such as RAC, HA, DR, 10g? Migrated and Consolidated 2 VLDB to single instance using Transportable Tablespace.? Migrated VLDB Solaris database to Redhat Linux Pre-production DBA/Staging DBA Gatetrade Exchange Project - K?benhavn - September 2001 to April 2002 Sep 2001 - Apr 2002)? Project Description?  Installed stage and production databases including Oracle exchange. Configured middle-tier for optimal performance. Performance tuning on database for self-hosting.? Role: Pre-production DBA/Staging DBA Principal consultant Oracle Corp - K?benhavn - 1999 to 2002 http://www.oracle.com. Internet Technologies Group Task force DBA, Group leader of international DBA team Redwood City - December 2000 to August 2001 Dec 2000 - Aug 2001)? Project Description?  Troubleshoot highly 100+ troubled business to business application databases for customers of hosted exchange (EBay, etc).? Role: Task force DBA, Group leader of international DBA team. Oracle DBA Telia Net - K?benhavn - May 1999 to December 1999 May 1999 - Dec 1999)? Project Description?  Implemented and customized document handling system for Telia Net using Oracle's latest technologies (8.1.6.1, IAS) on Linux platforms.?  Installed and upgraded Oracle DB rel. 8i. Performance tuning. PL/SQL programming ,oracle text/intermedia. Unix. Converting from long to blob.? Role: Scoping, forecasting, analysis, design and implementation, Oracle DBA. Principal Database Administrator Telia Net - July 1999 to September 1999 Project Description?  Developed a custom built Web-based E-commerce solution as extension of their existing ERP system, making it possible for customers to purchase TOP-TOY's products over the Internet.? Role: Analysis, design, implementation of databases and planning of technical architecture. In charge of database and technical architecture planning. Senior consultant, Cap Gemini Norway Oslo Office - 1995 to 1999 http://www.capgemini.no. Class factory team, Oracle DBA expert Product manager Oslo Office - 1992 to 1995 http://www.ifsworld.com/norway/ Oracle DBA Norwegian Contractors, Oslo Office - 1991 to 1992 Programmer/DBA DB2 IBM A/S and Partner PDS - 1989 to 1991 Oracle in General (Recent)?  Oracle 11g administration on several platforms?  10g/11g administration, installation, maintenance, performance tuning?  RAC. Implementing from single instance. 2-4 nodes on Sun and Windows?  HA, Data guard, standby database; implementation and operation?  Knowledge of "best practices" of DBA standards & procedures?  Oracle advanced features include partitioning, clustering, streams and replication?  PL/SQL programming?  Performance tuning? ? Oracle Business Experience Education Mathematics, Statistics, Philosophy Oslo University 1990 to 1991 Bachelors in Informatics and Management Accounting Oslo Institute of Computer Science 1987 to 1990 Skills Database Administration, database design, shell scripting, problem solving Additional Information Operating Systems? Windows 2000/NT, UNIX, Linux, VMS, AS/400? Standard Applications? Microsoft Office Suite, Project Workbench, MS Projects, Visio, Lotus Notes? Other? ER*win, various case tools
Senior Oracle Database Administrator (DBA);Senior Oracle Database Administrator (DBA);Oracle Database Administrator, Laboratory Information Systems:::Senior Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) Senior Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) - XEROX HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS Lawrenceville, GA - Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) XEROX HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS - Dunwoody, GA - March 2013 to Present Database Environment - ORACLE RDBMS 12c/11gR2/10gR2, Dataguard 12c/11gR2, GoldenGate, Oracle 12c/11gR2 Grid Infrastructure? ? Exadata X5-2 Elastic Rack HC 4TB - Configuration planning, hostnames, networking, capacity planning/diskgroup ASM configuration, migration of legacy databases to Exadata, OEDA, DataGuard, Oracle 12c Cloud Control? ? OS Environment - RHEL Linux 5.3/6.3, AIX 6.1/7.1? ? Team Lead of Design and Implementation of Process Automation for MMIS Health Enterprise Systems.? ? Provide DBA Production/Development/UAT Support for Enterprise/NYMMIS/PBM/HIX databases.? ? Installation & Configuration of Multi-Terabyte Oracle Databases 12c (12.1.0.2.0) in Redhat Linux? ? Configuring Oracle 12c Active Data Guard on Multi-Terabyte databases.? ? Configure/Troubleshoot Oracle 12c GoldenGate Replication/CDC issues.? ? Backup & Recovery -DR Management using RMAN, Data Guard, and GoldenGate? ? Schema Sync/Multi-Environment Data Refresh from DEV/UAT/PROD and ORR reporting databases (Cognos/Informatica) via datapump, sqlloader, custom perl scripts? ? Database Performance Troubleshooting - AWR, ADRCI, SQL*Trace, Explain Plan, Table & Index Analysis, SQL/PLSQL Tuning Long Running Queries? ? Database Storage Management - ASM Disk Management, Capacity Planning? ? Designed and Standardized sql code deployment/change management via custom Perl scripts and PHP web based tracking system eliminating deployment errors.? ? Provide On-Call support on a rotational basis for 24x7 mission-critical database environments. Senior Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) VERIZON BUSINESS - Alpharetta, GA - 2000 to 2013 Managed Large Grid Design, Implementation, & ongoing Operations of comprehensive Financial and Marketing Data Warehouses in Production and Development environments? ? Installed/Updated Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g on Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Unix(HP-UX, Solaris), IBM AIX, Linux Dell Clusters? ? Configured Oracle Networking, ASM, shared memory, semaphores, etc. Data Modeling via ER-Win & Embarcadero? ? Created Data Warehouses on Sun E10k and Dell Linux Clusters, directs storage and data maintenance with Oracle ASM while providing backup and recovery solutions for databases? ? Constructed standby/failover databases for Mission Critical systems using Data Guard? ? Governed the integrity of numerous terabytes of data on EMC Clariion San Storage Oracle Database Administrator, Laboratory Information Systems UNITED STATES AIR FORCE - San Antonio, TX - 1993 to 1999 Stored, modified, and updated detailed patient data; Created tables for all patients contact information and all hospital ancillary service department result fields? ? Tuned queries for ad-hoc reports, lab values, and Lab Q.C. data & generated indexes and clusters on tables for efficient querying? ? Adjusted memory for adequate SQL parsing, eliminated table contention, monitored database cache, table growth, and limited disk fragmentation? ? Supervised junior airmen in database procedures, performed weekly reports on systems and kept staff abreast of current security and database procedures Education Master of Business Administration in Information Systems TIFFIN UNIVERSITY - Tiffin, OH 2003 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems THOMAS EDISON STATE COLLEGE - Trenton, NJ 2001 Certificate COMMUNITY COLLEGE OF THE AIR FORCE Skills AIX (10+ years), Database (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), Redhat (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Proficiencies? GoldenGate, Oracle RAC Clusters, Data Warehousing, Backup & Recovery, RMAN, Performance and Tuning, AWR/ADDM, Schema Management, Oracle ASM, Unix Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, PERL, PHP, Database Architecture, Dimensional Modeling, Design (ERwin), Microsoft Visio Enterprise, Data Migration, Red Hat Linux Cluster Configuration, AIX
Senior Oracle Database Administrator;Senior Oracle/Banner Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Junior Database Administrator;Junior System Executive:::Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle Database Administrator - Con Edison of New York - Irving Pl - Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator Con Edison of New York - Irving Pl - New York, NY - August 2015 to Present Responsibilities:?  Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 11gR2, 12c on Linux and also Upgraded from 11g to 12c, and refreshed Oracle 11gR2 and Oracle 12c databases using file system for storage to ASM.?  Planned and Implemented Disaster Recovery (DR) and High Availability using RAC, DataGuard and also, responsible for setup and implementation of 3 Node RAC on Linux in 12c.?  Installed OEM 13c cloud control Agents on database 12.1.0.2 and Monitoring databases using Grid Control 12c and 13c for Configuration of error notifications. Database monitoring/health check alert scripts for database uptime/down status, and sizing issues using grid control (OEM).?  Configured Oracle Streams in One Way Setup and Bi Directional Setup. Implemented Disaster Recovery database 12c DataGuard on physical standby database in maximum performance mode.?  Configured DataGuard Broker, fast start failover and used for switchover and stopping and Starting Media recovery process, Instance status, check queries, Top wait events, redo transport status and Performed Disaster Recovery testing.?  Upgraded databases in Dataguard Environment from 11gR2 to 12c for primary and standby.?  Installed GoldenGate for replication of database on 12c RAC environment and Configured parameters for the Bi-directional replication to provide uninterrupted service in case of RAC instance/ node failure.?  Converted databases from ZFS filesystem to ASM filesystem. Supported Oracle Cluster series using ZFS Storage Subsystem.?  Introduced Oracle Advanced queuing technique in the database for the Java based applications to trigger the processes based on Oracle Advanced Queueing Technique.?  Configured a real-time downstream capture processes using GoldenGate and Active DataGuard.?  Used Logdump Utility to Investigate data on the trail and fixed the abended process by outer repositioning the process, defgen utility to create definition files in GoldenGate.?  Configured GoldenGate as CRS resource to provide uninterrupted service of RAC instance node failure and Implemented basic tasks on RAC like Mirroring OCR on different ASM diskgroups, Tuning Node Evictions by setting disktimeout, reboot time, miscount.?  Upgraded 11g RAC to 12c RAC and Administering the RAC Environment through SRVCTL and CRSCTL.?  Implemented GoldenGate Replication 11g/12c on ACFS and configured for Automatic failover of GoldenGate process and upgraded GoldenGate from v11 to v12. Configured Integrated Extract, Integrated replicat and coordinated replicat on Oracle multitenant database 12.1.0.2.?  Migrated databases using GoldenGate from AIX, UNIX to RHEL environments and applied patches to GoldenGate environment 12.1.0.2.?  Upgrading GoldenGate from 11g to 12c and troubleshoot the several issues on GoldenGate using ggserrorlog, using log dump utility. Performed Zero-Down Time migration from AIX to RHEL using Expdp and GoldenGate.?  Configure and build heartbeat monitoring in GoldenGate and process improvement for GoldenGate by proactive monitoring using Shell scripts.?  Experience in Metadata Modelling at three layers (Physical, Business and Presentation) using the Oracle BI Administration in OBIEE?  Performed EBS R12 plaftform migration from AIX to Oracle Linux?  Have a good experience in administering Oracle Aws RDS components. Installed Oracle 12C on Linux platform in a data warehouse in AWS environment.?  Monitored databases performance using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g/12c Grid control.?  Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases, managed disk groups with ASM.?  Expertise in configuring and implementing ASM and proficiency in using ASMCMD and ASMLIB and configuring ASM disk groups using ASMCA and SYSASM.?  Used Different RAC utilities: raccheck, orachk, oratop, TFACollector, ocrconfig, OSWatcher, Srvctl and Crsctl and resolved RAC issues, OCR related issues, rebooting of faulty nodes, relocating the switched over services.?  Configured AWS EC2 Instances using AMIs and launched instances. Created highly available and scalable infrastructure in AWS cloud by using various AWS services like EC2, VPC, RDS.?  Expert in ASM to Non ASM migration in 12c database on AWS EC2 Instances. Migrated development/production databases to AWS RDS mainly used advanced concepts like Dynamo DB, MySQL. Responsible for all regular AWS Database administrative activities and modifying the AWS database structure, as necessary.?  Expertise with EXADATA(X5-2) RAC and having good Experience with Oracle for Exadata or Database Appliance hardware issues. Expertise in Oracle for Exadata.?  Worked on single Command configuration on Exadata Machines. Knowledge to support Oracle Cluster machines using ZFS Shared Storage Subsystem.?  Worked with Informatica Data Replicator (IDR) tool during Extraction/Transformation/Loading using Informatica Power Mart/Power Center with flat files, Oracle, Exadata and Teradata. Good understanding of ETL/Informatica replication. Worked with Informatica developers to export utilities in exadata.?  Created volumes on ASM disk groups and maintaining ACFS Cluster File system in RAC.?  Applied rolling patches to fix known bugs as well as PSU.?  Implemented advanced features of Oracle 11g such as Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM), Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) for monitoring database performance. Modified and updated the Performance tuning?  Extensively worked on Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) to ensure that Extract Transfer and Load (ETL) processing was completed. Participate and assist in meetings as a member of the Data Warehouse team and completed tasks in specified sprints.?  Efficient in using the Oracle Tools like OEM, SQL* Plus, SQL* Loader, TKPROF, LOGMINER, STATSPACK, SQL*Net, IMPORT/EXPORT, and RMAN.?  Use Oracle Metalink Support to resolve issues related to database servers, security patches and Proficient in raising SR with Oracle Support.?  Developed UNIX shellscripts to monitor various events in the database and also to maintain and cleanup oracle generated files/logs.?  Monitoring Locking Activity/Long Running Transactions/Temp issues/UNDO Issues/RMAN Backup Issues/Tape Issues/DR Recovery Issues/monitor ORA errors like ORA-7445 and ORA-600 and apply patches if required or contact Oracle Support for Additional Information (by raising SR) Replication Maintenance.?  Worked on databases ranging from 2TB to 10TB and participated in monthly on-call DBA schedule.?  Generating Weekly Adhoc reports. Tasked to complete Adhoc & weekly data requests for a variety of quality assurance processing.?  Provided on-call support 24x7 for any issues with system by receiving text messages when an issue arose and logging in remotely to resolve those issues.? Environment: Oracle12c/11g, Oracle EXADATA X5-2 HALF RACK, HP-UX 7.x/11.x, IBM AIX-6.1, RHEL 5.x, 6.x, OEM 11G/12c/13c, Oracle ZFS NAS, RAC11gR2, 12c, ORACHK, RACCHECK, OCRCONFIG, SRVCTL, CRSCTL GoldenGate, Linux 5.8, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, RMAN, SQL server, DataGuard, GoldenGate, OEM, Grid Control, STATSPACK, AWR, Exports/Imports, Oracle-Wallet-Management, WebLogic server, Fusion Middleware, PL/SQL Tuning, Data Pump, Business Objects, putty, TOAD 11.6. Senior Oracle/Banner Database Administrator University of Massachusetts - Boston, MA - May 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:?  As an Oracle DBA, Supported Educational Testing Center by implemention of High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Standby Database (Active DataGuard) to ensure high availability, data protection and disaster recovery for enterprise data.?  Used Data masking to protect private and confidential data by replacing sensitive information with dummy data, knowledge on Physical and Logical structure of database.?  Implemented and Installed Level 3 OEM Cloud Control 12c on Linux machine. Installed WebLogic server 10.3 during the Installation of Cloud Control 12C. OEM Cloud Control 12c Agent installations, plug-ins installations and adding targets to OEM, configure new databases for monitoring, Setup jobs, alerts, notifications etc.?  Supported University systems with Ellucian Banner ERP systems within and outside of the organization. Upgraded all databases from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2 using Banner application in Oracle Databases by following Ellucian schedule.?  Extensively involved in analyzing the functional requirements for the Database Access Profiles.?  Configured RMAN backups using NetBackup and DDBoost, Experience in backup and recovery. Cold backups, Hot backups, Logical backups, RMAN backups performed at different levels of Full backup, Incremental backup, Differential backups, Cumulative backups.?  Design and implement Oracle Fusion Middleware components for systems integration on WebLogic 11g and OAS 12c platforms.?  Missing archive log scenarios in Dataguard environment resolved by restoring archive logs from backup and incremental backups through RMAN?  Implemented the DataGuard with delay shipping of the archive logs in order to avoid the logical corruption on the physical standby database.?  Implemented DataGuard with maximum availability, protection and performance configurations and worked with DataGuard Fail over and Switch over cases at the times of upgradation and migration.?  Performed Upgrades, Enhancements, and regular maintenance to system by researching, planning, as well as applying patches to databases and E-Business suite to keep them up-to-date.?  Planning Recovery Procedures and Performing backups in both Archive log backup using RMAN and No archive log Back mode using Exports and Import utilities?  Expertise in upgrade process from 10g to 11g and 11g to 12c and data migration using Expdp and Impdp. Identified and fixed the logical block corruption using RMAN & logical backup using Data pump Expdp and Impdp Utility.?  Knowledge in Oracle Retail suite of Merchandising and Store level applications such as RMS, RPM.?  Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, UTLESTAT, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, Distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes.?  Performed cross platform migration of databases from IBM - AIX, Solaris, HP-Unix to Linux 11g using RMAN, FLASHBACK and Data Pump.?  Administration and troubleshooting 10g, 11g and 12c RAC clusterware using clusterware logs.?  Worked with developers on preparing, testing and deploying application releases to non-production and production environments.?  Worked closely with application and development teams to resolve production issues. Created database services for different applications. Applied one-off patches to fix problems, upgraded Grid and RDBMS software to higher versions.?  Participated in installation and support of Oracle Financial Accounting Hub (FAH) application.?  Attended Developer's code review meetings and Iteration meetings made recommendations to improve Efficiencies.?  Expertise in optimizing SQL queries by reading Explain Plan Statistics, developed backend interfaces using PL/SQL Packages, Stored Procedures, Collections.?  Upgraded the Oracle 11g database to 12c version and also applied patch set and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.zz? Environment: Oracle 11g/12c, BANNER- ERP, DataGuard, ASM, Banner, Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM) Grid Control 12c, 11g, GoldenGate, RMAN, SQL PLUS, PL/SQL, Toad 9.5, LINUX 4,5 and 6, Solaris. Oracle Database Administrator Department of Transportation Penn DOT - Harrisburg, PA - March 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:?  Configured and tested Replication using GoldenGate where Source Database on Sun Solaris 10 SPARC 64 bit with Oracle 11g and Target Database on Linux with Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server release 5.4 with Oracle 11g Database with 2 node RAC on ASM.?  Deployed agent and implemented GoldenGate plugin in the OEM to monitor the GoldenGate.?  Configured integrated replicat by converting the classic replicat to improve the performance of the process in the GoldenGate.?  Adding a new node to RAC cluster and installed Oracle RDBMS software on new node of cluster and created ASM volume using ASMCA and created ACFS for GoldenGate 11g.?  Divided replicated tables among multiple GoldenGate processes to speed up performance.?  Troubleshooting typical Oracle GoldenGate technical problems such as unique key violation long transaction abending by using GGSCI, Logdump, discard file analysis etc.?  Installed configured and maintained databases on high availability systems like DataGuard and Real Application Cluster environments. Setup and maintain Oracle DataGuard (Physical) with Fast Start Failover, Active DataGuard.?  Configured Oracle DataGuard for Oracle Disaster Recovery and Performed switchover/switchback from primary database to standby database for testing.?  Setup multiple DataGuard Setups (DataGuard Broker-DGMGRL) for 2/3 Node 11g RAC Clusters.?  Involved in Configuration of 2 nodes RAC on Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server release 5.4 with Oracle 11g on ASM and performing health checks on RAC using SRVCTL and CRSCTL.?  Extensive experience with Database Cloning and Refreshing pre-prod databases.?  Managed and monitored the Oracle Real Application Cluster running on VERITAS storage.?  Performed Tuning, coding and Monitoring for Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) nodes, Production Standalone Servers via Toad.?  Worked closely with system administration and network teams to ensure standard and consistent platform, storage provisioning and configuration. Apply patches and bug fixes. Design and implement new functionality. Converted standalone databases to RAC.?  Using Oracle Data Pump utility and performed Database Migration and Upgradation of databases.?  Developed Recovery Manager (RMAN) scripts for database backup and recovery for hot and cold backup options for both RAC and standalone instances.?  Trouble shooting various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, instance, memory, OS and java calls.?  Expertise in analyzing database objects, creating indexes, creating materialized views, Store Procedures, Functions, Views, Database Triggers, exception handling using SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle.?  Experience in Database backup concepts and options such as user-managed backup, RMAN-managed backup, operating system backup, cold and hot backup, full back up, incremental, cumulative backup and implementing backup and recovery strategies.?  Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN, Hot and Cold backups and data transfer using Data Pumps and Export/Import utilities.?  Experience in Data migration Projects which uses SQL Developer, PL/SQL programming, coding Procedures, triggers and functions.?  Good Knowledge in Installing, Configuring, Upgrading MySQL 5.0/5.6/5.7 databases running on OEL?  Provided Instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical I/O and Memory Usage.?  Maintenance: Setup cron jobs to monitor database status and to alert on-call DBA, to backup databases, to monitor space usage, and to generate status reports. Refresh non-production databases using Oracle export and import, using RMAN restore and recovery. Provide 24/7 general database support.? Environment: Oracle 11g RAC& 11g RAC, OEM Grid Control, Sun Solaris, HP-UX, RHEL, Windows 2000/XP, RMAN, TOAD, RATIONAL ROSE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR and ADDM. Junior Database Administrator Vodafone India Services Private Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra - March 2010 to December 2012  Installation, Maintenance and administration of Oracle 10g on Red hat Linux, Windows, AIX,?  Used Enterprise Manager for diagnostic summary, CPU utilization, wait events, alert log errors etc.?  Installation and maintenance of Oracle 10g DataGuard and Standby database setup via DataGuard.?  Experience in Creating Physical Design Data Models using Erwin Tool.?  Responsible for writing the small code in Microsoft Visual Studio.Net with ASP.Net using code behind C# and VB.NET & .NET experience with visual studios XML Skills: XML, XSL, XSLT, Web Services.?  Created, monitoring database objects like Indexes, Views, Users, and DB Links.?  Developed PL/SQL programs for the conversion of Org Level item Update into Oracle database. PL/SQL programs for the conversion of Master level item update and Lot status Update?  Administered, maintained, developed and implement policies and procedures to ensure the security and integrity of all Oracle and some SQL Server databases.?  Worked extensively on monitoring 10g/11g Grid Control and Configuration of error notifications, installing listeners, and adding them to the grid control.?  Performed Block Recovery and Data file recovery using RMAN. Assisting in implementation of change control process in production. Identified and fixed the logical block corruption using RMAN Involved in taking logical backup using Datapump Expdp and Impdp Utility.?  Performed Data load on different databases from flat file using SQL*Loader.?  Written Stored Procedures and Triggers for database maintenance and management using PL/SQL?  Pitched in help in other areas of the EBS such as fixing issues with the customer extensions in Oracle Project.?  Extensively used features such as Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, ASM, AWR, and ADDM for Generating reports.?  Taking Backups on scheduled time and monitoring scheduled Backups.?  Installed Standalone servers on ASM and migrated databases to ASM.?  Implemented data transfer using Transportable Table Spaces (TTS), Data Pump and Export/Import.?  Collected ADDM recommendations using OEM 10g/11g to tune the top running SQL Queries.?  Experienced in performing Point-in-Time Recovery.?  Monitoring tablespaces issues, creation tablespaces and adding datafiles.?  Continuous monitoring of database performance during peak and non-peak loads using STATSPACK.?  Tuning heavy data loads. Monitoring and Performance tuning.?  On-Call 24x7 DBA support for production databases.? Environment: Oracle 10g/9i, Sun Solaris 9, AIX, Redhat Linux, OEM, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Plus, Unix, Data Modeler, RMAN, DataGuard, RAC Junior System Executive Corporation Bank - Pune, Maharashtra - January 2009 to February 2010 Responsibilities?  Creating the databases using DBCA and also using scripts.?  Expertise in Oracle Architecture, SGA, PGA, Listener, TNS Names, SQLNet, V$, DBA views. Setting up SQLnet/ SSL/TLSListener/Tnsnames.ora.?  SQL Server 2008 R2, SSRS, SSIS, TSQL Data Manipulation, ETL. Custom FoxPro DB application development to facilitate image processing. Relativity and Concordance DB data migration and Administration.?  Evaluate all Performance tuning tools used by the team including Toad, Sql Developer, and Performed quality control audits.?  Implemented data transfer using Data Pump Export/Import utilities.?  Created and maintained user accounts, roles, privileges, and system and user level database objects.?  Designing and creating schema objects like Database tables, indexes, views, synonyms, and all schema objects in Oracle.?  Performing Daily, Weekly and Monthly Oracle monitoring and maintenance tasks.?  Extensive application tuning through STATSPACK, explain plan, SQL*Trace.?  Wrote Stored Procedures according to specs and control files for input to SQL*Loader utilities for loading data from external files into the Oracle database.?  Tuned the performance of the SQL's using TkProf and Stats pack reports.?  Creation of Tablespace, Data files, Indexes, Rollback Segment and monitoring them.?  Creation of Users and Granting them privileges and roles.?  Installed Oracle 9i/10g database on RHEL and applied all PSU patches.?  Involved in the creation and modification of different PL/SQL object like Packages, Stored Procedures and Triggers.?  Involved in writing complex SQL statements. Monitoring the data loading jobs and tuning the SQL queries.?  Database Backup and Restore using RMAN and Export/Import and used Crontab Schema refresh to lower environments using Expdp/Impdp.? Environment:? Oracle 10g, Windows 2008, Sun Solaris 5.x, IBM AIX Oracle RAC, TOAD, VERITAS, OEM, LOGMINER, DB Links, SQL, PL/SQL, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology JNTU Skills databases (8 years), OEM (8 years), oracle (8 years), PL/SQL (8 years), RMAN (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:? Databases Oracle [?] SQL [?] MYSQL 5.7? Oracle Products? Oracle Real Application Cluster [?] GoldenGate, DataGuard, Import and Export, Data pump, Oracle Wallet Management, Automatic Storage Management, Recovery Manager, Oracle Streams, Oracle [?] (Grid Control), Oracle EXADATA, RMAN, Oracle Wallet, ZFS, Transparent Data Encryption, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) [?]? ? OperatingSystem Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 4.x, 5.x, 6.x, Oracle Linux, HP UNIX 11i, AIX 6.1, Sun Solaris 5.8, 5.9, 5.10, Windows [?]? Languages SQL, PL/SQL, Unix shell scripting, Java, C, .Net, Python.? Tools & Utilities SQL Trace and SQL tuning Advisory, SQL* plus, ADDM, DBCA, Log Miner, TKPROF, AWR, ASH, Toad, Oracle SQL Developer, ERWIN, ETL
Senior Database Administrator;On Site Support Engineer;Senior Database Administrator;Systems Programmer:::Senior Database Administrator Senior Database Administrator - TE Connectivity Temple, PA - To obtain a position within your company that will enable me to maximize my technical skills. Willing to relocate to: North Carolina - Florida Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Administrator TE Connectivity - Harrisburg, PA - November 2004 to Present  Supporting over 300 Oracle databases, over 100 installations of Sql Server, over 75 DB2 instances for SAP, numerous MySQL databases, Amazon MySQL, and Oracle RDS instances, Azure Cloud for SQL Server databases, Hana Native and BW systems and Big Data-Hadoop Administration duties using Cloudera software.?  Responsibilities include: DBMS installation, patching and upgrades; high availability, performance tuning, backup/recovery plus disaster recovery and audit compliance along with hardware migration support.?  Provide hands-on day-to-day support for Oracle, Sql Server, MySQL, HANA, DB2 and Hadoop.?  Provide architectural and patching recommendations for database technology.?  Project Team Lead on Amazon Cloud Services for E-business implementation?  Project Team Lead on Ignition Project involving MySQL Database environments?  Weekly DBA Team On-call Rotation Member?  Various other duties performed On Site Support Engineer Oracle Corporation - Berwyn, PA - December 1999 to October 2004 * Responsible for onsite support at various customer locations.? * Database Administration on various Operating Systems? * Software Installs/Upgrades/Patches? * First level contact with direct Oracle support personnel.? * Various other duties Senior Database Administrator TYCO Electronics - Harrisburg, PA - June 1998 to November 1999 * Supporting 10TB RAC Oracle DB release 9.2.0.x, 10.2.0.x.?  Daily Support for Oracle RAC Data Warehouse HP environments, raw file system?  Provide secondary support on SUN, Windows platforms?  Performance Monitoring - Backup and Recovery using NetBackup software?  Software Installs/Upgrades/Patches?  Very involved in Oracle version 9i to Oracle 10g upgrade project?  Innovate new ways to perform business processes?  Research new products and implement them as necessary Systems Programmer Carpenter Technology Corporation - Reading, PA - October 1984 to June 1998 Junior DBA (Oracle/DB2 OS/2)? * Supporting IBM MVS DASD 3380/3390 technologies. Backup VTAM administrator.? * Daily Support for Storage management for VSAM/Sequential files? * Backup VTAM administrator? * Oracle Support for 3rd party tool Manugistics? * DB2 support for OS/2 homegrown applications? * Software Installs/Upgrades/Patches for DB2 and Oracle Skills ORACLE (10+ years), DB2 (5 years), MySQL (5 years), DATABASES (10+ years), DISASTER RECOVERY (10+ years), Hadoop (Less than 1 year), SQL Server (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS: Relational Database Management systems including:? Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, SAP LiveCache, SAP Hana, Big Data/Hadoop Admin? Cloud Support for Amazon MySQL RDS Instances and Azure Cloud for SQL Server Databases? Project Management, Disaster Recovery Planning? ? Quick Learner and proficient administrative skills
Sr.Oracle DBA;Sr. Oracle DBA;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Database Administrator:::Sr.Oracle DBA Sr.Oracle DBA - Scubel LLC - Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Sr.Oracle DBA Scubel LLC - June 2016 to Present Role: As a SME in Oracle database, providing database design/administration for production, development and testing environments? ?  Implemented uni directional and Bi-directional replication using various versions of Golden gate.?  Configured different levels of replication such as DDL replication, DML replication for table/schema level using Golden Gate.?  Maintaining and Installations of Grid Infrastructure software.?  Performed numerous Installations of various versions 11g and 12c.?  Performing release level and version level upgrades?  Very much acquainted to the change management process for production changes.?  Performed numerous version and release upgradations.?  Setting up OEM and installing agents on servers.?  Expertise in applying PSU Patches to all releases of Oracle on UNIX environment.?  Worked on 2-node, 3-node and 6-node RAC environment.?  Implementing Recovery Strategies and recovering the database in case of crash to minimize downtime of the databases.?  Worked with application development team to resolve app related issues?  Extensive experience in supporting Production and Development environments.?  Working under the environment of 24X7 DBA support.?  Interaction with client/users on various issues.?  Extensive experience on support databases utilizing PeopleSoft applications.?  Troubleshooting performance issues reported by the Application Team.?  Experience in opening, managing, and resolving Oracle TAR's to resolve prod issues.?  Physical and logical Data guard implementation and maintenance.?  Several load tests on databases in coordination with testing/dev teams.?  Schema, Table, Database refreshes on demand for dev teams.?  Generic .profile scripts setup for databases & env setup on brand new servers.?  Backup of the Production & Development Databases, based on business requirements.?  Resolving complex backup and recovery issues.?  Configured physical standby database and tested for switchover.?  Monitoring and performing daily incremental backups, weekly backups using RMAN.?  Performing Table, Schema, Tablespace, and Database refreshes.?  Excellent in troubleshooting Oracle Network issues. Sr. Oracle DBA Bank of America - August 2014 to June 2016 As part of active team member in Oracle DB team, supported to the critical applications like ecommerce, channels, products and SOT.? ?  Maintaining and Designing Gigabyte to terabyte sized databases?  Implemented High availability using Golden Gate Replication?  Strong in database architecture, Upgrades, Patching, RMAN, database cloning, installations and configurations.?  Maintaining strong working relationships with other DBA's and application teams?  Going through the day-to-day user requests and troubleshooting the database related problems.?  Identify, prioritize, resolve and/or escalate issues as they arise for delivering solution on time?  Proactive monitoring of databases through alerts/monitors?  Troubleshoot performance issues & root cause analysis?  Ensure databases are compliant with Global Information Security (GIS) guidelines?  RAC setup from the scratch using OCFS and ASM technologies on 3 node Linux machines.?  Building new databases and physical standby's from the scratch [oracle 10g and 11g versions]?  Performed database migrations from 9i to 10g and 10g to 11g.?  Cross Platform Database Migrations using Transportable table space?  Upgraded RAC database versions [10.2.0.2 to 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.2 to 10.2.0.4, 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.2, 11.2.0.2 to 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4]?  Setup and configured Oracle 10g/11g RAC high availability systems with Oracle ASM and oracle ACFS (11g).?  Upgraded oracle cluster ware version from 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.2, 11.2.0.2 to 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.2 to 11.2.0.4.?  Installing 10g and 11g standalone and RAC databases on SOLARIS, IBM-AIX and Red hat Linux?  Migrated and restored OCR and Voting disks?  Setup disaster recovery and High Availability Architecture with Data Guard (having physical Standby) in Standalone and Oracle RAC environments using manual approach and Data Guard broker.?  Oracle 10g and 11g RAC switchover and failover configuration, implementation, and testing?  Setup Data guard (physical standby databases) for RAC one databases.?  Setup cascading physical standby databases in Data Guard.?  Expertise in troubleshooting Data guard scenarios.?  Setup, Configure and manage Oracle golden gate 11g.?  Implemented golden gate replication between oracle-oracle bi-directional.?  Good knowledge in troubleshooting oracle golden gate environments.?  Created RAC databases on Oracle Exadata Machines.?  Applied PSU patches to grid and RAC RDBMS homes.?  Managed 1.2 TB cluster database with 3 cluster nodes.?  Created and maintained RAC one databases.?  Analyze SQL statements, reorganize database objects and design indexes to improve response of queries.?  Performance tuning, troubleshooting & monitoring using ADDM and Automatic Workload Repository Advisor in Oracle and SQL Profile?  Monitoring indexes and rebuild the indexes?  Performance tuning for optimized results using tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL*Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR and ADDM reports.?  Exposure to flashback technologies.?  CPU/PSU patches installation on every quarter and maintaining current patch levels as per GIS risk ratings.?  Applied PSU, CPUs, golden gate patches, one off and bug fixes in Oracle RAC, Data Guard and Oracle Exadata machines.?  Applied patches using "opatch auto" and "opatch apply online".?  DB cloning using RMAN duplicate and from active database (11g)?  Recovery of Database (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering tables dropped accidentally, Recovering data files, Recovering from Block Corruption).?  Involved in and successfully performed a number of RMAN & TSM restore and recovery operations.?  Used RMAN duplicate and RMAN from active standby for setting up Standby databases.?  Good Knowledge in troubleshooting RMAN operations like backups to disk and tape, in golden gate systems and in RAC.?  Schema refreshes using export, import, expdp and impdp.?  Decommissioning database as per the requirement?  Proactively monitoring databases, database servers, golden gate.?  Capacity planning of the servers with respect to storage, memory, CPUs and making suggestions to management for acquiring new hardware to meet the business demands.?  Coordinating with different departments like Applications, TSM, UNIX, Change Management, Problem Management, Capacity Management, Sys admin, SAN.?  While on-call support, resolved successfully priority incidents and received appreciation from service management.?  Interacted with Oracle Support for resolving various critical database issues like ORA-600,ORA-7445?  Job scheduling using crontab?  Wrote many wiki documents for new activities/troubleshooting?  Designed and implemented solutions for Data migrations?  Ability to work flexibly as a team member.?  Dedicated with an inner drive to succeed and accomplish goals.?  Ability to perfectly plan and execute the given job to perfection.?  Received appreciation from the manager for dedication towards work on many occasions. Oracle Database Administrator Gemalto Pte ltd - Singapore - October 2013 to August 2014 Environment: Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g on UNIX/Linux, AIX, and Solaris environment.? ?  Experience in handling the databases on production, dev and testing Environments.?  The production and DR databases are always kept synchronized, by deploying the real time apply feature of Oracle Data Guard. This has considerably reduced the manual archive shipping/applying tasks. The DR restoration drill has also been successfully tested by switching over the databases (switch over).?  Implemented advanced RMAN concepts as the backup strategy for the production databases (Hot and Cold backups). Have scheduled these backups in the CRON to run at scheduled timings.?  Managing OEM agents, configuring/deleting targets from portal?  Setting blackouts in OEM, Tivoli netcool tools for activities needed downtime.?  Applying CPU patches and required one off patches during weekend outages.?  Working in coordination with backup teams for net app filer level backups for databases.?  Refreshing data from production to staging instances?  Creating users and managing roles and privileges.?  Routine DBA activities like refreshing schemas on demand, scheduling cronjobs, taking care of alerts pertaining to production systems etc.?  Working in coordination with support team (Oracle) and applying the patches provided for the bugs identified. Working with server consolidation project that includes migrations from servers to others and also to newer versions of databases.?  Working with 24X7 database support.?  Monitoring native tools for tickets and Ensuring quality of the deliverables as per the SLA and maintenance standards agreed upon.?  Maintaining and Installations of oracle software on brand new servers and migrating them from client servers to IBM servers in IBM data center.?  Performing release level and version level upgrades?  Applying Patches (CPU, DST etc.) to all releases of Oracle on UNIX environment?  Implementing Recovery Strategies and recovering the database in case of crash to minimize downtime of the databases.?  Worked with application development team to resolve app related issues?  Scheduling and managing Cronjobs.?  Performing SAN migrations of databases from old to new SAN.?  Weekly index rebuilding activities on all the production databases. This also includes statistics gathering.?  Use EXPLAIN PLAN to know if the execution plan for critical jobs has changed.?  Enable session level tracing and send the trace file to the application team.?  Coordinating with the data center team in moving backup to tapes and then deleting the old/moved backups from disk as part of cleaning policy.?  Upgraded the UAT database from 10g to 11g and applied recent CPU Patch.?  Performed Oracle switch over operation successfully during a Power failure disaster. Auto mail triggering has been enabled to the customer mail id for the daily database related reports.?  Restoration drill has been handled successfully as part of sanity check on the current backup strategy.?  Automated the mundane jobs and enabled mail triggering for automated database reports. Oracle Database Administrator IBM - February 2009 to June 2013  Checking the status of backups and sending report to onsite; if failed, finding the root causes for the failure and provide a RCA report to the customer for the same.?  Setup, Configure and manage Oracle golden gate 11g.?  Setup Data guard (physical standby databases) for RAC one databases.?  Building new databases and physical standby's from the scratch [oracle 10g and 11g versions]?  Coordinating with the onsite DBA, application team for any emergency releases/refreshes?  Database refreshes on UAT and Production using Data pump (IMPDP/EXPDP). Also when there are space constraints due to file utilization, refresh activity is performed using database link and the NETWORK_LINK parameter of IMPDP.?  UAT environments are refreshed with the Production database in very short time span by taking Cold backup replication from the DR database.?  Upgraded RAC database versions?  Installing 10g and 11g standalone and RAC databases on SOLARIS, IBM-AIX and Red hat Linux?  Setup disaster recovery and High Availability Architecture with Data Guard (having physical Standby) in Standalone and Oracle RAC environments using manual approach and Data Guard broker.?  Contacting Oracle Metalink support in case of major technical assistance.?  On-call Support?  Setup cascading physical standby databases in Data Guard.?  Expertise in troubleshooting Data guard scenarios.?  Implement backups, perform recovery, and refresh databases with Data Pump, RMAN, and user-managed methods and ensure high availability with Flashback Database, Flashback Drop, Flashback Query, and Flashback Table?  Upgrade Database and Grid Infrastructure, apply CPU, PSU, and one-off patches using rolling upgrades and offline methods, and bug fixing with Oracle Support through Service Requests?  Resolving DB related performance issues. Oracle Database Administrator IT CAN Pvt Ltd - Singapore - August 2006 to February 2009  Configured services and listeners using oracle Net Manager.?  Configured Oracle Networking and monitored database listeners.?  Production Support for Critical Application Databases, work closely with Application Team in identifying issues and provide solutions for various issues.?  Implemented Oracle Patches (CPU, PSU) on the Compliance databases Device a plan to patch them quarterly so that we can cover all the databases in a year.?  Checking Databases Backup and Restore validity periodically, and Data refreshes from Production to Non-Production environment, Creation Duplicate Databases using RMAN Backups.?  Implemented backup policy using oracle RMAN. Prepared test environments for backup/recovery using RMAN.?  Recovering Databases when there is any Physical or Logical Corruption.?  Created routines for Daily, Weekly & Monthly partitioning of tables. Created/Altered Partitioned tables for large customer related data.?  Tuned database servers by using new 10g features ADDM, AWR, Keep/pin objects, tune recovery time, ran SQL trace and generated TKPROF reports.?  Providing support to clients/developers regarding SQL queries, applications errors, database errors Prepared and managed system for Data replication. Loading flat file data into tables using SQL Loader.?  Configured Automatic Storage Management (ASM) for 10g RAC databases for reducing disk.?  Performing Database Refreshes using Exp,Imp ,Data pump, SQL*Loader and RMAN?  Strong knowledge of Oracle internals, tools including DBMS jobs, RMAN, SQLPlus, export/import, Toad, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).?  In-depth knowledge of Oracle internals and architecture.?  Experience with testing and debugging Oracle Internals, Architecture and Performance issues. Oracle Database Administrator Sigmax Solutions Pvt Ltd - February 2003 to August 2006 Kaula Lumpur, Malaysia? Role: As Oracle Database Administration supported day to day monitoring for multiple client databases. Worked on upgrades and performance tuning?  Patched (CPU/PSU PATCHES) all of our production databases. Some of the production databases are in OS cluster. So patching was initially done on the passive node, then package switching is done, and later the active node is also patched. The same patching activity was performed on all of the UAT databases too.?  Checking the status of backups and sending report to onsite; if failed, finding the root causes for the failure and provide a RCA report to the customer for the same.?  Coordinating with the onsite DBA, application team for any emergency releases/refreshes?  Database refreshes on UAT and Production using Data pump (IMPDP/EXPDP). Also when there are space constraints due to file utilization, refresh activity is performed using database link and the NETWORK_LINK parameter of IMPDP.?  Installation and Configuration of Oracle 10g R2 RAC databases on Linux.?  Administering RAC databases using SRVCTL.?  Installation and Configuration of Oracle 11g and 10g and Creating Databases based on specifications.?  Applied CRS # bundle patch to resolve node eviction issues and for bug fixes.?  Configured high availability services in RAC and tested for failover and load balancing.?  Patched and upgraded databases from 10.2.0.1 to 10.2.0.4.?  Performed database backup using RMAN.?  Decommissioning of Schema's as per approved requests.?  Implemented ASMM feature in Memory Tuning.?  Performance tuning of Query by taking Execution plan with tkprof and explain plan utilities.?  Job scheduling using crontab.?  Participating in Disaster recovery testing with senior DBAs and preparing documents to client for future reference. Skills database (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), replication (9 years), RMAN. (10+ years) Additional Information Skills? Additional Skills? Oracle [?] RAC , Golden Gate, RHEL 6/5 , RAC , AIX , OEM grid control(11g/12c) , TOAD , Data Pump, RMAN, AWR , ASM, Exadata , Linux , 24*7 support Upgrade , Upgrade/Patching/Migration/Backup Recovery/Mirroring 24*7 support? Software Name and Version? Oracle Database 12c, 11g, 10g and 9i? Backup Technology RMAN, Exports/Data Pump, Traditional Hot/Cold backup? Replication Technology Oracle 11g/12c Standby/Data Guard, Oracle 11g/12cGolden Gate.? Database Tools SQL*Plus, Toad and OEM 12c Grid control? Languages SQL, PL/SQL, Shell scripting (KSH, C & Bash), HTML
Senior SQL Server DBA;Senior SQL Server DBA;Associate Software Engineer -DBA;Associate - SQL Database Administrator;Trainee - SQL Database Administrator:::Senior SQL Server DBA Senior SQL Server DBA - Ernst & Young TX -  Accomplished SQL Server DBA, Process improvement and Automation professional with 10 years of IT operations, development and project management experience.?  Providing 24x7 support for production databases?  SQL server database administration skills include Installation, Configuration, Security management, and audit SQL server with PBM, Patch management, Performance tuning, Query optimization, Storage management and SQL server change management.?  Experience in designing Disaster recovery, High availability and Reporting solutions with the help of windows cluster, Always-On, Replication (Snapshot & transactional) and log shipping technologies.?  Worked on VLDB and complex environment with 400+ SQL Server instances and maximum 8 TB database size.?  Extensive experience in upgrading and migrating SQL server [?] on clustered and standalone servers.?  Expertise in writing stored procedures, cursors, functions and triggers using T-SQL. Working knowledge of writing power shell scripts to automate administrative tasks.?  Implemented database backup strategies based on size & criticality?  Import and export of data using SSIS packages?  Managing security (creating users, logins, and granting permissions)?  Monitoring & troubleshooting performance bottlenecks such as CPU, Memory, blockings & long running queries?  Resolve space issues in advance by projecting the trending reports.?  Implementation of database maintenance jobs to ensure optimal performance?  Maintaining the database consistency with DBCC and rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals?  Highly motivated, organized, innovative and result driven individual committed to excellence & continuous improvement.?  Extensive knowledge and hands-on experience in Database architecture, administration, system analysis, design, development and support of SQL Server.?  Extensive knowledge of designing cost effective database infrastructure solutions (Physical to Virtual) and provide hardware and software requirement specifications.?  Keen towards learning new technologies and methodologies to support business.?  Good hands on VERITAS & MICROSOFT Cluster services. Work Experience Senior SQL Server DBA Ernst & Young - US - March 2016 to Present Ernst & Young (trading as EY) is a multinational professional services firm headquartered in London, United Kingdom. It is one of the "Big Four" audit firms and is the third largest professional services firm in the world by aggregated revenue in 2014, after PwC and Deloitte.? The organization operates as a network of member firms which are separate legal entities in individual countries. It has 212, 000 employees in over 700 offices around 150 countries in the world. It provides assurance (including financial audit), tax, consulting and advisory services to companies.? ? Responsibilities:?  Perform Database schema comparisons and deploy the changes?  Deployed SSIS packages using ispac & Visual Studio tools.?  Performed UI deployments?  Configured Always-on and supported production databases?  Design database infrastructure and provide hardware & software requirement specifications.?  Plan and execute SQL Server installations 2014.?  Design DR, HA and reporting solutions with Log Shipping, Replication and Always-on technologies.?  Configure & maintenance of Always On for tier 1 servers.?  Define plans for backup, Index and Stats updates. Set up monitoring on SQL server.?  Resolve critical alerts, incident and troubleshoot performance issues.?  Used SQL Profiler traces and extended events to monitor database performance metrics?  Processed user requests received through tickets using share-point site.?  Configured & maintained log-shipping between the servers?  Implemented security standards which ensures proper privileges are given as per the needs? ? Environment: MS SQL Server 2014, Windows 2012 R2 Senior SQL Server DBA Asurion - US - October 2011 to February 2016 Description: ASURION is one of the major mobile insurance providers in USA. From lost, stolen, and damaged mobile phones to malfunctioning computers or TVs, Asurion offers best-in-class, next day device replacement and experienced, and hassle-free support to millions of consumers daily. It provides insurance for various clients such as Verizon, AT&T, T-Mobile, Wal-Mart, and Sprint and provided global support for the production servers in USA, Europe, China, Japan, and Korea under 24*7 basis? ? Responsibilities:?  Migrated SQL servers from VCS to MCS cluster.?  Requirement gathering, planning and implementation for the new environment builds, database migration and upgrade projects.?  Design database infrastructure and provide hardware & software requirement specifications.?  Plan and execute SQL Server installations (2008/2008 R2/2012), upgrades and migrations.?  Design DR, HA and reporting solutions with Log Shipping, Replication and Always-on technologies.?  Configured and managed Always On for tier 1 servers.?  Setup maintenance plans for backup, Index and Stats updates. Set up monitoring on SQL server.?  Resolve critical alerts, incident and troubleshoot performance issues.?  Used SQL Profiler traces and extended events to monitor database performance metrics?  Define SOP/Run books for routine change activities. Capacity planning of database servers using trends in growth and volume.?  Performed SQL Cluster failovers and applied service packs during IW activities.?  Data Encryption using SSL, TDE, Symmetric Keys & Column Level?  Design and implement SQL Standards with the help of Policy based management (PBM)?  Resolved replication issues like Row not found & Primary key violation errors and reduce latency issues.?  Automated replication activities to permanently fix the issues.?  Deployed RFCs as a part to add/modify the functionalities to the application/databases.?  Processed user requests received through tickets using CA Service desk & Service Now tools.?  Configured & managed log-shipping between the servers and resolved latency issues.?  Well versed with fog-light, Nagios & Spectrum monitoring tools.?  Implemented CDC on production databases? ? Environment: MS SQL Server 2005/ 2008/2008 R2/2012, Windows XP /Windows 7 Associate Software Engineer -DBA IMPAC - US - December 2010 to September 2011 Description: IMPAC is one of the mortgage banking companies in USA. Impac Mortgage Holdings Inc., a publicly traded firm and offering consumer and wholesale lending, title, escrow, and REO services. This deals with high-margin residential and commercial mortgage loans.? ? Responsibilities:?  Implemented SQL scripting through PowerShell?  Identify and resolve incidents by working closely with application teams?  Perform RCA to permanently resolve the bottlenecks.?  Developed the scripts for production servers, which collect the metadata of all the databases and stores in the history tables?  Monitor failed jobs on a daily basis and resolve permanently?  Responding to alerts for resolving log file growth, blocking, long running queries & mount point space issues?  Monitored and documented the SSIS packages, which update the SQL databases?  Design custom scripts for database backups, index rebuild and update statistics.?  Defined backup strategies as per the size and criticality of databases.?  Troubleshoot database performance issues by tuning indexes, updating stats & recompiling procedures.?  Performance tuning with the help of SQL Server Profiler and query execution plan.?  Created & implemented plan guides to avoid performance issues due to parameter sniffing.?  Created stored procedures to fix the orphaned users, and check disk space on the server?  SQL server auditing & security Management.?  Developed triggers for auditing SA Logins?  Create logins, users and provide appropriate permissions?  Fix orphaned users when databases are either Migrated/Restored?  Standardized the recovery models as per the need to prevent log file space issues?  Worked on user Adhoc requests like configure replication/log-shipping.?  Perform code review & deploy the scripts given by developers?  Implemented partition techniques to standardize purge process across the board?  Resolve replication latency issues by adjusting the thresholds.?  Monitor SQL Servers for space, memory & CPU issues using Nagios monitoring tool.?  Performed SQL failovers to balance the load during IW? ? Environment: MS SQL Server 2008/2008 R2, Windows Server 2003/ XP Associate - SQL Database Administrator Vermont Bank - US - August 2008 to November 2010 Description: The scope of this project is to maintain the databases of banking customers, ensuring the databases are always up and running and supporting by maintaining minimum downtime with optimum performance.? ? Responsibilities:?  Installed and configured MS SQL Server 2005?  Processed user requests received through tickets?  Performed backup and restorations of databases?  Managed and troubleshot the SQL jobs supporting backup and maintenance tasks?  Monitored the status of maintenance jobs scheduled to run daily and on weekends (tasks such as rebuilding indexes, defragmenting databases, shrink database, and database complete backup)?  Effectively implemented running consistency checks on production servers?  Maintained security by creating logins/users and providing appropriate permissions?  Configured and implemented the replication for reporting purpose?  Configured log-shipping between the servers as part of DR setup?  Performed failover of instances during IW activities? ? Environment: MS SQL Server 2005/ Windows XP Trainee - SQL Database Administrator Safeco Insurance, Seattle - August 2006 to July 2008 Description: The scope of this project was to maintain the databases of customers who were insured with this product. Ensuring the databases up and rising always.? ? Responsibilities:?  Installed, configured, and administered MS SQL Server 2005?  Upgraded MS SQL Server 2000 to MS SQL Server 2005?  Recovered the databases from backup in disasters?  Effectively implemented Point in Time restoration?  Resolved all sorts of MS SQL Server related problems, which involves MS SQL Server services, backup/ restore, database corruption, and security?  Optimized and troubleshot database performance issues, which include performance tuning, optimizing indexes, memory settings, and database consistency issues through DBCC commands?  Ensuring all maintenance jobs are running fine with no issues.?  Implemented SQL logins, roles, and authentication modes as a part of security policies for various categories of user support?  Rebuilt the indexes when necessary for better performance?  Exported and imported data from other data sources such as flat files using import/ export of DTS?  Monitored MS SQL Server performance using SQL Profiler to find performance and deadlocks? ? Environment: MS SQL Server 2000/2005, Windows Server 2003 Education Master of Science in Mathematics Osmania University Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS? ? Databases MS SQL Server 2000/ [?]? Operating Systems Windows 2000/ 2003/ XP/ Windows 7? Performance Tool SQL Profiler, Windows Perfmon, Foglight, PCM? Development T-SQL, SQL Server Integration and reporting services, Power shell? Monitoring tools FogLight, PRTG, Spectrum, Nagios? Supporting Tools LiteSpeed, Red Gate SQL tool belt and SQL Sentry Plan Explorer? Languages Pascal, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL? Tools DataStage, Cognos, SSIS
Director;Manager;Lead Senior Database Adminstrator;Senior Product Support Engineer at SAP/Sybase;Senior Database Developer:::Director Director - Database Platform Superior, CO - Driven database Director, Analyst, Developer and Implementation professional with? heterogeneous database experience encompassing data governance and data architectures to? drive enterprise data goals. Experience in the Healthcare, Telecommunications, Financial? Services, and Software industries focusing on data and database management.? ? Enterprise footprint:?  250,000 Servers managing Hosted Healthcare customers.?  120 Petabytes of storage.?  230,000 Databases under management.?  Highly Regulated Healthcare data governance requirements. Work Experience Director Database Platform - February 2015 to Present Made a major contribution in Building Trizetto Hosting into a highly profitable business that was? sold to Cognizant Technology Services for $2.7 billion in 2014.? ? Head of Database Platform Strategic Project Initiatives for Oracle (Exadata x4/x6, 11g, 12c,? mySQL), SAP (ASE, IQ, HANA, SRS), and Microsoft (SQL Server 2008, 2012, 2014),? MongoDB in AWS.? ? Strategic Database Project Management responsibilities include the management of direct reports over all Hosting UNIX database platform teams. Developing Database as a Service (DBaaS) -? automated database provisioning utilizing VMware.? ? Master Data Management - Healthcare Compliance Metrics, Monitor Data Flows? Data Governance - Data Classification, Access Controls, Data Encryption, Data Masking.? SaaS - Database Virtualization, Database Tier Architectures, Database Provisioning. Manager Database Engineering & Operations at TriZetto, Inc - November 2008 to January 2015 Manager of Oracle & SAP-Sybase DBAs - Onshore and Offshore DBA Staff? - Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g, Data Guard/SAP-Sybase ASE 15.x to 15.7, Replication 15.x? - IBM AIX 6.x, 7.x and Linux operating systems.? - 175 Hosted Instances containing 2,000+ Databases/Schemas? - 300+ Terabytes of data - 4 environments with 6+ terabyte databases.? - Manage data for all TriZetto Products & Services? - Production Healthcare Systems (Claims, Workflow, Pricing, Health Management) Lead Senior Database Adminstrator TriZetto, Inc - June 2003 to October 2008 Team Lead for SAP-Sybase DBAs for 4 years and supported most of the largest hosted? customers at TriZetto as a primary on-call DBA.? - Acted as the primary technical contact for complex issues, implementations, and upgrades.? - Team Lead for Oracle & Microsoft SQL Server DBAs during management transition periods or large projects.? - Built, implemented, and supported new and existing database customers to run their Healthcare? Management Systems that utilized TriZetto's Products and Services. Senior Product Support Engineer at SAP/Sybase - June 1997 to June 2002 - Worked on escalated customer issues from Technical Support for the discovery, identification, and resolution of product defects.? - Trained Technical Support on product configuration issues.? - Worked with Engineering and Product Support to prioritize software fix schedule.? - Created software change requests for bugs and enhancements.? - Provided potential fixes with detailed patch installation instructions.? - Provided workarounds or JAVA Specification API clarification for Technical Support.? - Provide Product Architecture requirements on Sybase's Application Server and portal products for customers, partners, engineers, and Technical Support personnel. Senior Database Developer Time Warner Communications at Time Warner Cable - October 1996 to June 1997 Developed stored procedures, triggers, and functions in Transact-SQL for a Telecom? application running on a Sybase database server.? - Built replication server definitions and subscriptions to move data from remote data centers to the National Operations Center located in Denver.? - Worked on data architecture specifications that utilized a Smalltalk object oriented? telecommunications application developed to support an early adoption of telephony on a cable? network. Education Master's in Software Engineering University of Denver 2000 to 2003 BA in Economics, Applied Mathematics University of Michigan 1980 to 1984 Additional Information Specialties? Master Data Management, Data Architecture, Data Governance, Business Analysis, Analytics,? Quality Assurance, Database Performance Management, Process Automation, Data Replication,? Database Capacity Management, Data Analysis, Database Architecture, Database Administration? ? Skills & Expertise? Data Analysis, Analytics, Data Management, Data Architecture, Data Replication, Data? Modeling, Databases, Oracle, SAP/Sybase ASE, Microsoft SQL Server, Performance &? Tuning, T-SQL, Integration, Agile Methodologies, SQL, Enterprise Software,? Requirements Analysis, SDLC, Software Project Management, .NET, JAVA, UNIX (AIX,? Linux, Solaris)
BI and MDM Developer;SQL and SSRS Developer;BI Developer;SQL Developer;Progress Front end developer and Progress Database Admin;Progress Front end developer and Progress Database Admin:::BI and MDM Developer BI and MDM Developer - KROGER - ? Software Professional with total 8 years of IT experience which includes 5 years of experience as SQL developer 3 years in SSIS and SSRS.? ? Excellent understanding in database and data warehousing concepts (OLTP and OLAP).? ? Full knowledge of data warehouse methodologies and data modeling knowledge, Dimensional Modeling, Star Schema/Snowflake Schema, Fact and Dimensional tables.? ? Expertise in creating/modifying Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, Functions, indexes, CTEs and Triggers and in depth knowledge in query optimization & performance tuning.? ? Expertise in creating complex queries such as all kinds of joins (Left join, Right join, Full join, Outer join) and sub queries.? ? Experienced in designing ETL packages, extracting, transforming and loading data from OLTP and various sources into staging area and Data Warehouse using SSIS.? ? Experienced in data mapping implementation and design.? ? Experienced in scripting, script task, script component, with SSIS, or SSRS.? ? Experienced in Error and Event Handling by setting Precedence Constraints, Break Points, Check Points and Logging in SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS).? ? Strong Excel (Pivot Tables and some formulas) background.? ? Developing in house tools in VBScript interacting with SQL Database.? ? Using SOAP for Web services results.? ? Expert in MDM development working past 2 years in MDM development.? ? Expert in Retail domain and re-insurance domain? ? Certified Agile / SCRUM Team member.? ? Experience in working with flat files and XML's in SSIS packages? ? Good knowledge of Oracle. Excellent skills in writing Business requirements document (BRD), Use Case Specifications, Functional Requirement Specifications (FRD), Systems Design Specification, Workflow and Diagram skills? ? Basic knowledge of UNIX commands.? ? Good knowledge of Excel advanced formulas and macros. Work Experience BI and MDM Developer KROGER - Cincinnati, OH - December 2012 to Present Description: This is the pilot initiative taken by mercury to move the item data from legacy mainframe system to TIBCO MDM. This helped in faster new product introduction in market, also to have real-time sync data from supplier through GDSN portal (VIP).? ? Responsibilities:? * Highly dynamic environment with sprint teams using agile methodology.? * Working on the SQL Server 2012 for the data migration involving SSIS packages. Managing multiple databases in both SQL Server 2008 and 2012.? * Working on SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2008 R2.? * Creating T-SQL complex queries, stored procedures, triggers, views, tables.? * Performance tuning of various SQL queries and SP.? * Processing multiple flat files and XMLs through the SSIS jobs.? * Applying various transformation operations like Merge, Union all etc.? * Manage the data present in the database. Developing tables, Stored procedures, views, triggers, indexes.? * Performance tuning of the T-SQL queries.? * Developing SSRS reports depending upon the requirements. Reports include parameterized, drill down, drill through, cascading parameterized reports.? * Develop SQL Server 2008 R2 databases and maintain them for the better working of various applications.? * Interacting with the Offshore Team members about the project status. SQL and SSRS Developer NIELSEN - Tampa, FL - February 2012 to December 2012 Description: STAR and RADQUEST applications in Nielsen to initiate and track different surveys worldwide and record all the historical and operational detail in MDM.? ? Responsibilities:? * Developed SQL stored procedure, Triggers and queries? * Involved in direct interaction with client and understand requirements well. Analyse the requirement and provide with the suitable solution.? * Manage more than 15 databases for the claims of various clients? * Develop the process to get the data into the required SQL Server database.? * Manage the database by creating tables, Store procedures, view, triggers and functions.? * Developing complex stored procedures and queries to manage database.? * Worked on T-SQL, stored procedures, views, performance tuning.? * Created functional and technical documents of requirements and developed packages. BI Developer Walgreens - Chicago, IL - August 2010 to January 2012 Description: Signs Plus Application Development and Support.? Signs Plus application is used by Walgreens for Shelf Tag generation from the data flowing from DB2 database to SQL Databases.? ? Responsibilities:? * Developed, deployed and monitored SSIS Packages for new ETL Processes and upgraded the existing DTS packages to SSIS for the on-going ETL Processes.? * Involved in Migration of Databases from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 using SSIS.? * Writing complex SQL queries to verify results? * To analyze the data and provide suitable solution to it.? * Creating stored procedures and tables and views as per the requirements and complex SQL queries.? * Involved in the production support team for planning cycle after production implementation. Strong ability in developing advanced SQL queries to extract, manipulate, and/or calculate information to fulfill data and reporting requirements including identifying the tables and columns from which data is extracted. SQL Developer P&G, Pune, India - February 2009 to July 2010 Description: Proficy (MES by GE Fanuc) Implementation at various P&G sites.? Proficy is the Manufacturing execution system used for Production tracking at all the P&G plants globally. It is the product from GE customized based on needs for P&G.? ? Responsibilities:? * Debugging and customizing the product level stored procedures for P&G.? * Developing the reports for the production metrics involving different plants.? * Involved in direct interaction with client and understand requirements well. Analyze the requirement and provide with the suitable solution.? * To capture data from SQL Server it included complex SPs (stored procedures), views, functions, indexes, triggers and complex queries using joins.? * Performed testing of reports, SPs and data validation so that report meets all requirement and standards. Progress Front end developer and Progress Database Admin TATA Auto - April 2008 to January 2009 Description: JIT/S (Just in Time/Sequencing) Implementation.? JIT/S is Product from QAD Software for implementing Lean Manufacturing concept. It's implemented between machine level systems and ERP for production tracking? ? Responsibilities:? * Customized the tool for Client's need.? * Integration with SAP ERP to receive work orders in XML format.? * Processed in JIT/S and storing the details in Progress Database.? * Work in highly dynamic environment with changing requirement.? * Writing complex SQL queries to verify results.? * Facilitated user acceptance testing with business users and utilizing my strong domain expertise. Progress Front end developer and Progress Database Admin RMS Group - Noida, Uttar Pradesh - August 2007 to April 2008 Description: Risk Management Data Warehouse.? Capture the risk based data for all the US geographical location from all the reputed insurance agencies.? ? Responsibilities:? * Merging and organizing of client data into a single format.? * Cleaning of Client Data through SQL queries.? * Writing SQL queries to verify cleansing results.? * Data Modelling and Data Load using SQL Server.? * Writing Complex SQL Procedures, Triggers and Packages for implementing complex business rules.? * SSRS involved complex drill down and drill through reports which involved charts and graphs for the better understanding of end user.? ? TECHNICAL AND OTHER TRAININGS RECEIVED:? ? SAFE Agile Team member? ? Retail Domain certified from TCS? ? Six sigma Training for Green Belt project? ? SOAP UI Training. Education Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology Ideal Institute of Technology College affiliated Additional Information Core Skills? ? ? Software Methodology - AGILE, SAFE Agile, Waterfall.? ? Technologies -VBScript, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Business Intelligence Development Studio 2008 R2, Visual Studio OLE DB, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) 2008 R2, Power Pivot, Microsoft Excel, Macros, Oracle.? ? Operating Systems - Windows [?] Windows Server 2003.
ANALYST/DEVELOPER;DATA ENTRY CLERK;DATABASE MANAGER AND DEVELOPPER:::ANALYST/DEVELOPER ANALYST/DEVELOPER - GLOBAL MANUFACTURERS AND CONTRACTORS S.A Pompano Beach, FL - Willing to relocate to: Pompano Beach, FL - Miami, FL - Boca Raton, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ANALYST/DEVELOPER GLOBAL MANUFACTURERS AND CONTRACTORS S.A - Port-au-Prince - September 2015 to Present Port-au-Prince - Haiti? Database administration COMPANY: GLOBAL MANUFACTURERS AND CONTRACTORS S.A. (GMC)? Data analysis JOB TITLE: ANALYST/DEVELOPER? Relational databases Contributing to both the requirements and technical aspects of any development? Data management Specification. Investigating software problems identified in testing or via Support? Data cleaning & providing solutions, also assisting in the resolution of software support issues.? Data entry excel ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:? SQL skills  Designing, writing new software programs and integrating existing software?  MySQL Products and getting incompatible platforms to work together.?  MS SQL server  Troubleshoot technical issues and identify modifications needed in existing? Applications to meet changing user requirements.?  Postgres, Access?  Verify database, data integrity and Train the users on the systems?  Oracle (Learning) (Exact MAX software, Scanning WIP, Cut plan and Cutting ticket system)? Installing and maintaining databases.? SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Administration of the database including performance monitoring and tuning.? JAVA Taking part in the preparation and execution of technical tests.? Visual FoxPro Populating a database with new information or transfer existing data into it.? ? Involved in the design of physical database schema, data modeling, and? Object Oriented? performance tuning.? Development? principles DATA ENTRY CLERK ACTION CONTRE LA FAIM - January 2015 to August 2015 ACF-HA?I)? PERSONAL SKILLS JOB TITLE: DATA ENTRY CLERK? Attention to detail? Good analytical skills? ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:?  Enter data and prepare food security analysis.? Goals orientated?  Check, archive data and suggest possible improvements.?  Identify missing data or redundancies.? PROFESSIONAL? Diploma for Software? Developers DATABASE MANAGER AND DEVELOPPER TIMERSYSTEM - Santiago de Chile, Regi? Metropolitana - June 2012 to June 2013 ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:?  Assist in the design, development, integration and implementation? Original information systems and innovative business solutions.?  Test, maintain, analyze and oversee programs and systems? IT and coordinate the installation of these programs and these systems.? KEY SKILLS AND COMPETENCIES? Highly organised and disciplined with a passion for Information Technology.? Able to effectively communicate technical data to non technical colleagues.? ? Attention to detail & ability to work in a? Commercial Software developed? Developer of a School software ( Logisco ) For the pressurised time sensitive environment.? administration of primary schools, college and high? Experience running complex and high? school, already based in the center of classical studies of Petionville ( Haiti )? Developer of a commercial management software (? Supplying qualitative and quantitative? LogeScom ), already based in the sweet pastry Gout? data to colleagues & clients.? Gonaives (Haiti)? Developer of a monney and parquet transfer software? Analysing raw data, drawing? ( Timertransfert ), already based in Reno Transfe? conclusions & developing? Dominican Republic.? recommendations.? Software programming language: Java? Sound understanding of relational,? object and dimensional databases. Databases: MySQL (WAMPSERVER).? ? Able to plan the structure of a database.? Ability to multi task & prioritise under ever changing & challenging workloads.? Ability to quickly understand complex problems and devise effective solutions.? Manipulating, cleansing & processing data using Excel, Access and SQL.? Responsible for loading, extracting and validation of client data.? Liaising with end-users and 3rd party suppliers.? Data entry, data auditing, creating data reports & monitoring all data for accuracy.? Designing, developing and implementing new functionality. Education Computer engineering Technological University of Santiago 2009 to 2013 Everest (Polytechnic) September 2010 to 2011 Spanish Instituto de la Lengua espa?l y Asociada January 2009 to March 2009 Fabre Nicolas Geffrard High school 2001 to 2008 Institute of Management Accounting 2004 to 2005 French presbyteral Saint Jean School 1992 to 2001 Skills ANALYST/DEVELOPER (1 year), Data Entry (1 year), MySQL database developer (3 years), SQL server (2 years), data analyst (2 years), Java (2 years) Additional Information Highly organised and disciplined with a passion for Information Technology.? Able to effectively communicate technical data to non technical colleagues.? Attention to detail & ability to work in a pressurised time sensitive environment.? Supplying qualitative and quantitative data to colleagues & clients.? Analysing raw data, drawing conclusions & developing recommendations.? Sound understanding of relational, object and dimensional databases.? Able to plan the structure of a database.? Ability to multi task & prioritise under ever changing & challenging workloads.? Ability to quickly understand complex problems and devise effective solutions.? Manipulating, cleansing & processing data using Excel, Access and SQL.? Responsible for loading, extracting and validation of client data.? Data entry, data auditing, creating data reports & monitoring all data for accuracy.? Designing, developing and implementing new functionality.? Very strong experience on algorithms, data analysis, data modeling and data structures
Database Analyst;Mutual Fund Specialist II:::Database Analyst Database Analyst Milwaukee, WI - Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Analyst Zywave - November 2015 to June 2017 Manage the data conversion process for use in proprietary web applications and interpret/consult on data format and use with broker clients.? Assist Zywave partners in formatting and loading critical business data to Zywave databases for use in insurance applications.? Generate reports and provide consultative assistance for internal and external projects and initiatives.? In collaboration with internal and external business associates, develop and maintain data maps necessary for importing data into Zywave applications.? Generate and analyze routine and ad hoc reports to assist with support of Zywave applications, both internally and for our customers.? Maintain data standards and structure by producing validation and quality assurance reports to ensure data quality and consistency.? Interpret data, analyze results using statistical techniques and provide ongoing reports? Develop and implement data collection systems and other strategies that optimize statistical efficiency and data quality? Acquire data from primary or secondary data sources and maintain databases/data systems? Identify, analyze, and interpret trends or patterns in complex data sets? Filter and "clean" data, and review computer reports, printouts, and performance indicators to locate and correct code problems? Work closely with management to prioritize business and information needs.? Locate and define new process improvement opportunities.? Intermediate knowledge of DataStage capabilities.? Applying basic troubleshooting steps to current situation in DataStage and DecisionMaster.? Understand database structure and beginner level functionality in SQL. Mutual Fund Specialist II US Bancorp Fund Services - April 2013 to October 2015 Processes new accounts, purchases, redemptions, exchanges, transfers and account maintenance.? Processes change requests to meet critical deadlines. Responds to current and prospective shareholder inquiries received via telephone, providing general investment? company information.? Initiates customer or account financial transactions and adjustments as authorized by department guidelines.? Calculates and processes exact share trades, determines dividend distribution amounts, and reconciles account balances.? Continuous utilization and monitoring of DST systems, TA2000, AWD, TOA, FundSource, and Lotus Notes.? Created statistics solutions with the use of Microsoft Excel to encourage the best shareholder experience? ? A mentor for new employees, Continuous Improvement Committee Member, Specialized Fund's Team Leader. Education B.S in Information Science and Technology University of Wisconsin Milwaukee - Milwaukee, WI March 2018 A.A.S in IT Customer Support Specialist in IT Customer Support Specialist Milwaukee Area Technical College August 2015 to September 2015 A.A.S in Business Management in Business Management Milwaukee Area Technical College May 2013 Skills Active Directory (2 years), DataStage (2 years), Microsoft Excel (2 years), SQL. (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS? Excellent Customer Service Problem Solving? Proven Leadership Skills Analytical Skills? Reliable and Dedicated Wide Sense of Creativity? Strong Communication Skills Detail Oriented? Self-Motivated Windows 7? Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel? Microsoft PowerPoint Microsoft Access? Hardware/Software Support Active Directory? E-Commerce Marketing SalesForce? IBM DataStage and Director? Microsoft SQL Server 2014
Oracle Database Administrator;Oracle Production Support Databse Administrator:::Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database Administrator - Matson Navigation Inc Phoenix, AZ - I have over 6 years of in-depth experience as an Oracle Database Administrator. I possess full SDLC life cycle experience. Worked on Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g versions including database production support, installation and configuration, database upgrades, patch management, database migration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, space management and database security. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Matson Navigation Inc - Phoenix, AZ - January 2014 to Present  Worked as a team member for 24x7 support with on call rotation in all prod, QA and dev environments.?  Setup New databases on Clustered and Non clustered environment and Implemented Maximum Availability Architecture using RAC, DATAGUARD and Golden Gate?  Upgrade 11G Rac to 12c RAC and Administering the RAC Environment through SRVCTL and CRSCTL and applied patches in rolling fashion?  Worked on 12c RAC new builds and administering 12c RAC and managed ASM on RAC?  Creating Volume and Configured ACFS on ASM diskgroup and Extensively worked on creation oracle Databases with ASM filesystem?  Configured diskgroups with different redundancy levels and created fail groups and managing and tuning ASM parameters?  Configuration & Troubleshooting the Oracle DataGuard & GoldenGate environment in Oracle 11g & 12c versions.?  Configured Golden Gate 12c RAC, RAC Active configuration with 12c database?  Hands on experience in GGSCI utility for administering Extract, Pump, Replicate & reviewing the error logs and troubleshooting Abend scenarios.?  Configured GoldenGate BI-DIRECTIONAL replication and extensively used CDR parameters?  Full database, Schema refresh using RMAN, Datapump and Implemented the Backup strategies using RMAN catalog and nocatalog methods.?  Setting up of Oracle and Application user accounts and passwords, monitoring application security?  Responsible to improve the performance by Using the Hints, Indexes, Explain Plan?  Handled High volume production databases around 25 TB size along with Physical standby databases?  Proficient in Oracle High Availability features like RAC, DATA GUARD, GRID CONTROL and Oracle Performance Tuning Utilities like ADDM, AWR, ASH, SQL-Tuning Advisor, EXPLAIN PLAN, TK PROF, DBV.?  Performed Data file recovery from logical and physical block corruptions?  Good understanding and Implementation expertise in RAC, ASM, Data Guard like remedy change and user tickets, frequently communicate effectively with technical and non-technical customers.?  Exp on Cluster management, event management, application management, connection management, storage management, load balancing and availability. Continuous monitoring of performance during peak and non-peak loads using AWR reports, ASH, ADDM and Optimization SQL code using SQL Trace, tkrpof, Explain plan.?  Experience working with SQL, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers.?  Partitioning strategies for very large tables. Implemented Range, List, Hash and various Sub Partitions, Create and schedule refresh for materialized views.?  Work with Oracle Data Pump (expdp and impdp) which provides high speed, parallel, bulk data and metadata movement of Oracle database contents.?  Management of schema objects, partitioning of tables & indexes and performing SQL*Loader jobs for loading data from flat files (ETL) and Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshoot and resolve the issues.?  SQL tuning - AWR history of sql execution, index recommendations, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor, Real Time SQL Monitoring, Interpret Execution plans, Re-write more efficient SQLs.?  Data Refresh of large production data warehouse environment to setup test, development environments using SAN level storage mirroring: Gold image copy and cloning.?  Tuned the Database and applications using AWR, ADDM, STATSPACK, ESTIMATE, ANALYSE, EXPLAINPLAN, SQLTRACE, and TKPROF and gathered DBMS statistics.?  Configured RAC database with 4 nodes. Implemented Data Guard, Physical and logical Stand by databases to ensure high availability, data protection and disaster recovery.?  Improving the performance of the database by tuning SQL and database instance parameters using Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor and SQL Tuning Advisor in Oracle 10g?  Using TCP/IP Protocol Configured SQL*Net files on server / client machines, and resolved client connectivity issues.?  Worked on setting up Physical Standby Data Guard environment for Prod & non-prod databases.?  Provide support to developers to enhance their SQL, PL/SQL code and responsible for setting up of new user accounts, schema Deployments and related user administrative tasks.?  Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.?  Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.?  Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).? ? Environment: Oracle 11g/11g RAC/12c, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Oracle Production Support Databse Administrator Care Heath - Edison, NJ - March 2011 to December 2013  Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.?  Administered and monitored over 150 databases both on 10g/11g on prod/test/dev environments?  Administering Oracle Databases 10g/11g of sizes ranging from 100GB to 5TB?  Migrated databases from File-system to Automatic Storage Management (ASM)?  Involved in migrating applications from Solaris 10g/11g to Linux 11.2.0.3 using Transportable Tablespace, RMAN Convert?  Up-gradation of single instance databases from 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.3 on Linux?  Responsible for using Flashback query mechanism along with automatic undo management?  Experience in Creating Physical and logical database design Data Models using Erwin Tool.?  Installed 12C grid control and Used Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid control 11g/12c for monitoring databases.?  Programming in shell to create shell scripts that automate the database backups and maintenance.?  Involved in Mass Agent Deployment using Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c?  Implemented Data Guard with maximum availability and performance configurations for production databases?  Worked on Active data guard, Fail over and Switch over cases?  Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.?  Applied Bug fixes patches, Quarterly Security Patches for RAC and non-RAC servers for issues when upgrading, DR switchover testing.?  Reconfigured the OCR, public and private interconnects, modifying the VIPs and the subnet masks for 2, 3, 4 Node RAC Clusters and Upgraded single instance 9i/10g databases to 11gR2 RAC.?  Setup, reconfigured and monitored 2, 3 Node RAC Primary to 2, 3 Node RAC Dataguard for DR.?  Tested the Dataguard (DR) SWITCHOVER of RAC to RAC Dataguard as part of the migration.?  Created new databases/instances on 12c/11g RAC and single instances using customized scripts, DBCA.?  Handled all daily DBA activities and excellent experience with SQL scripting, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers to enforce the referential integrity constraints?  Performance monitoring and Database/Instance/clustered Application tuning using Dictionary views, AWR (Statspack), ADDM, ASM reports, OEM Grid Control, tuned SGA/PGA parameters, initialization parameters and reorganized physical objects (tables & indexes) and tablespaces to improve the performance.?  Redesigned table and index partitioning strategies, using HINTS to improve the query performance.?  Developed, modified and optimized very complex queries to data retrieval using Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, parallel processing and partitioning techniques.?  Monitoring the CPU, memory usage, I/O contention on servers using top, iostat, sar, glance, vmstat etc.?  Designed daily, weekly Backup and Recovery procedures for production, non- production databases using RMAN backups taking periodic Complete, cumulative and differential Incremental Backups.?  Migrated VLDB multi terabyte databases around 10TB and redesigned the RMAN backup Strategy.?  Data Refresh/Cloning from Production environment to setup QA/ DEV using RMAN Duplicate.?  Intensively used latest 10g/11g Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitoring (ADDM) reports for the health check of the databases, and used the notification tool to send the alerts in OEM Grid Control.?  Scheduled UNIX scripts in crontab jobs to automate daily tasks like backups, monitoring the alert logs, backup logs, cleaning the old archive logs, old log files, tablespace monitoring to send notification emails.?  Migrated data to a new ASM Diskgroup to improve the IO performance of the database.?  Export/Import, Datapump, Transportable tablepsaces to migrate databases from one database to another.?  Data aggregation and replication setup using Oracle Streams and Materialized views for reporting.?  Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshoot, resolve the issues, monitoring alert log, trace files.?  Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.? ?  Salary expectation $75000. Education Bachelor of Science degree University of Yaounde Associate Degree Montgomery College - Takoma Park, MD Skills cloning. (6 years), Database (6 years), databases (6 years), Linux (6 years), maintenance (6 years) Additional Information Professional Skills?  Implemented LINUX HUGE PAGES on OEL 5.5 and Redhat Linux 6.x for Clustered Environments.?  Applying Patches, Critical Patch Update/Patch Set update and One-off Patches using OPatch.?  Experience in patching RAC databases in rolling fashion to maintain high availability.?  Experience in tuning database and memory components for optimal performance using AWR, ADDM and ASH reports.?  Providing DBA support to multiple Cluster, Non-cluster and ASM Database in production, development and Testing Servers in Exadata, UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Solaris Environments.?  Have Hands on working in both Application and Production support environment.?  Excellent experience in Installation, administration and troubleshooting of Oracle [ ] for OLTP (multiple instances)/ OLAP environment on Very Large or Highly Transactional Databases.?  Expertise in setup, installation, configuration, maintenance and troubleshooting of several Oracle tools and utilities like Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer in various versions.?  Having good experience in configuring OEM 12C cloud control and have hands on experience in monitoring databases using OEM 10g/11g.?  Setup, Configured and Maintained Oracle Data Guard to control Primary and Standby Databases and also to ensure disaster recovery using various data protection modes.?  Expertise in setup/implementation/maintenance of Real-Application-Cluster (RAC) on 10g/11g?  Experience of Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration and troubleshooting Golden Gate Extract and Replicate issues?  Implemented RMAN backup(Full, incremental and cumulative) and recovery, Incomplete recovery and disaster recovery using Data Guard?  Solid experience in disaster recovery, Database backup concepts and options such as user-managed backup, RMAN-managed backup with or without catalog, cold and hot backup, full back up, incremental, cumulative backup and implementing backup and recovery strategies?  System administration, Oracle Problem analysis and resolution and active cloning of databases from one server to another server?  Testing and implementing different physical (hot/cold) and logical backup and recovery methods including point in time, media recovery, full/partial, and data pump export/import?  Created database & database objects like table, index, table space, rollback/undo segments and views & analyzed relevant objects to collect statistics to tune the system performance.?  Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, Distribution of Disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes.?  Data loading using SQL*LOADER, Logical backups using full export and DATAPUMP. Involved in tuning applications for optimal response time using SQL /Optimizer Trace at various levels and events, Explain Plan, TKprof, Oradebug and also identifying the poor SQL's, histograms, row chaining & row migrations and tune accordingly.?  Installing Oracle patches, Migration of database across releases.?  Implemented oracle 12c active standby database for test database environment.?  Implemented oracle 12c flexi asm for pre-prod environment.?  Utilized rman recover table functionality and created proof of concepts for our pre-prod environment.?  Implemented OEM 12c Repository database, OEM 12c Agent and golden gate plugin Installations.?  Extensive Experience with Change Board Meetings and Change Control Management for all database changes.?  Providing database administrative support and 24x7 on call support for production, development oracle 12c/11g databases on Red Hat Linux 5.0 and oracle enterprise Linux 5.5?  Experience with large databases (1.5 Tb) for OLTP and OLAP applications.?  Performed installation, configuration and maintenance of oracle 11g/12c, 11g RAC databases.?  Experience in configuring oracle 10g, 11g Real application cluster (RAC) (2 and 3 nodes) using cluster ware and automatic storage management (ASM).?  Performed migration of oracle 10g/11g non RAC single instance to RAC database instances.?  Experience with 11g cluster maintenance using CRSCTL command.?  Experience in using SRVCTL command for Oracle 11g RAC database.?  Implemented Disaster Recovery database 10g/11gData Guard on physical standby database in maximum performance mode using LGWR ASYNC mode.?  Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.?  Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.?  Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.?  Applied PSU Patches [?] [?] as a part of maintenance activity.?  Experience in Monitoring and Tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.?  Hands on experience in tuning mappings, identifying and resolving performance bottlenecks in various levels like sources, targets, mappings, and sessions.?  Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills? ? Operating Systems: HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x. Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows [?]? RDBMS: Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c? Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL? Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Team Viewer, LogMeIn and Cisco VPN Client? Database Utilities SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import
Developer;Quality Program Analyst;Access Database Administrator;Database Administrator;Business Analyst;IT Administrator;Optical Instrument Mechanic:::Developer Developer - R.J.C. ASSOCIATES, INC Santa Ana, CA - System Development/Data Analysis? ? ? With more than 5 years experience in Visual Studio (VB.NET) Windows Application, MS-SQL backend and Crystal Reporting System (Business Object}? ? With more than 10 years SDLC Experience.? ? With more than 10 years MS-Access with VBA development experience.? ? Have been successful working with Business Analyst to automate manual systems, from analysis and discussion of user requirement up to conceptualizing the Database Structure (Entity Relationship Diagram) and System Design? ? Experience with Process and Data Modeling in both MS-Access and MS-SQL Database? ? Can create Charts, Pivot Tables, Macros and VBA codes in Excel? ? Have interpreted business needs into functional reports and charts in Excel and transfer the data into PowerPoint for presentation? ? Have developed various Tools in MS-Access to automate processes for efficiency.? ? Have worked for a Power Generating company for 8 years supporting different departments? ? Have been assigned to successfully read, and correct/modify codes written by other programmers? ? System Administration/Technical Support? ?  Have handled all IT-related tasks for seven years for the Marianas Energy Co, a power plant in Guam before moving here to the mainland in 2007.? ? a) Network Admin (3 Windows 2003 Servers, MS-Exchange, MS-SQL, Backup Exec 10.0)? ? b) System Development (MS-Access with VBA, ASP.NET, VB.NET)? ? c) Helpdesk support. (Windows XP, MS-Office 2007, MS-Visio, MS-Project)? ? d) Distributed Control System (Power Plant Automated Control System)?  Working experience with Active Directory, Remote Desktop, Network File and Printer Sharing and Security, TCP/IP? NOTE: Major projects were outsourced under my supervision.? ? Accounting? ?  BS Commerce Graduate (Major in Accounting)?  Have assisted a Controller to perform Operational Audit - Purchase Order, Inventory System, and Cash Disbursement. Have also assisted in developing Cash Disbursement and Inventory Procedures.? ? Personal?  Have been rated "Excellent" in all seven years of employment with Marianas Energy Company. Have received a couple of "Card of Thanks" for a job well done in one of my recent assignment.?  Work in a fast-phase environment, having been sent to be a member of two ENRON power plant start-up companies (China and Guam)?  Strong interpersonal, verbal and written skill?  Work well independently and a great team player Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer R.J.C. ASSOCIATES, INC - Santa Ana, CA - May 2011 to Present LCI, a subsidiary of National Bankruptcy Services in Dallas Texas, provides Bankruptcy Data to the biggest financial institutions in the US like VISA, Bank of America, US Bank, Wells Fargo, Citibank, among others.? ? Develop, deploy and maintain Windows Application Automated Puller system that navigates through the web pages to pull data from the Service Civil Relief Act (SCRA) Website. This puller system is able to pull more than 20,000 active military status from the website and into a SQL database which would take weeks if done manually. (VB.net front end - 50%, SQL 2014 backend - 50%)? ? Design, develop, deploy and maintain several Store and Forward Windows Application which a) Import and stores Financial Institutions' Credit Account Portfolio (Credit Card, Mortgage, Other Loans)? b) Run a proprietary matching algorithm that compares these records with the National Bankruptcy Notification System by Name, Social Security Number, and Address? c) Generates records of positive matches in text file format? The Store and Forward data provided to the banking institutions allows them to minimize cost, lower legal risks, and increase debt recoveries. (VB.Net front end - 35%, SQL 2014 backend - 60%, and SSIS for report generation - 5%)? ? Help maintain the Enhanced Bankruptcy Notification System (EBNS) which d) collects data in various data format from various sources, like the Credit Bureau, Electronic Bankruptcy Noticing, and from other LCI product systems? e) combines data into MS-Access tables? f) manipulates data as per client specific business rules (Deduping, Filtering, etc)? g) generates text or Excel format output files? This system is maintained using legacy system such as VB6, MS-Access, MS-Excel. (VBA scripts - 50% , MS-Access backend - 50%? Environment: VB.NET, SQL Server 2014, SQL SSRS and SSIS, MS-Access 2013, MS Office 2013, Windows Vista, MS-Visio Quality Program Analyst HP "Hewlett-Packard" - Cupertino, CA - January 2010 to April 2011 Project: HP Products Quality Program? ? Have been tasked to develop for our group several tools using MS-Access with VBA codes that are designed to drastically save time and increase accuracy to analyze hardware and software trouble cases submitted to the Research and Development department.? Have been tasked to head the initiative on data processes simplification and operational efficiencies. Tools used are mainly MS-Access with VBA and MS-Excel.? The group supports the Quality re-engineering and re-design initiatives by coordinating and compiling statistical analysis in various data related formats, utilizing mathematical modeling tools.? Environment: MS Access 2007, MS Office 2007, Windows Vista, MS-Visio Access Database Administrator Infineon Technology - Milpitas, CA - March 2008 to March 2010 Project: KPI Tracking System? I developed the company's Customer KPI (Key Point Indicator) Tracking System. This system was developed in MS-Access with VBA codes.? This system keeps track of Customers' Sale (POS), Design Win and Registration and compares these figures against Last Year's Figures and Current Year's preset Budget. Figures are shown either by Customer, by Distributor, by Sales Region or by Product Group.? ? The system has the ability to map Customer Sales, which, coming from EDI, could be spelled in different ways and lacking customer ID, to the correct Customer record. Sales Record from EDI then, can be imported and Sales Data mapped directly to the correct Customer.? ? It also provides a way for Sales Manager's to plan and schedule a Customer Visit by Sales Rep, indicating visit dates, topic for discussion, business unit attendee, and customer contact person. With a click of a button, the program creates a Task Item on the Sales Manager's Outlook and likewise sends an "Outlook Task Item Request" to the assigned business unit attendee.? ? Environment: MS Access 2003, Visual Studio 2008 (VB.NET), MS Office 2003, MS Visio Database Administrator Infineon Technology - Cupertino, CA - July 2008 to April 2009 Project: Automated ENC Report Screening System? I developed the Trade and Compliance ENC Report Screening System in MS-Access with VBA codes. The system reads Sales Order records and performs various GMP and EPCI required scanning operation before exporting the same into Excel file for submission to the different Government regulatory agencies. Scanning operation includes checking for restricted products and invalid country codes, and screening for possible sales orders from embargo countries or black listed customers? ? Environment: MS-Access 2003, MS-Office 2003 Business Analyst Hannspree, Inc - Fremont, CA - October 2007 to February 2008 Project: Develop enhancement to existing systems? ? Have developed the following sub systems using Visual Studio 2005:? ?  Spare Parts Request Tracking System (Windows Application VB.NET)?  PO Status Screen - Web Queries (ASP.NET)? ? Environment: Visual Studio 2005, Crystal Reporting System, SQL 2000, Windows XP, MS-Office 2003 IT Administrator Marianas Energy Co - December 1999 to June 2007 System Development:?  Analyze, design and develop systems using MS-Access with VBA codes or MS-Excel with Macro / VBA Codes, SQL 2000, and Visual Studio 2005?  Customized and integrated systems developed using MS-Access with VBA codes include:? ? Inventory System? ? Purchase Request System? ? Purchase Order System? ? Work Order System?  Most recent development using Visual Studio 2005 accessing SQL 2000 Database and Crystal Report for report generation? ? Electronic Log (eLOG) System? ? Company Intranet?  Develop special forms using MS-Excel with VBA Codes/Macro upon user request?  Write detailed documentation for the operation of the program by users and computer operators;?  Conduct User Training?  Support the Administration Dept in general, the Accounting, Human Resource, Inventory and the Purchasing Dept in particular, in business systems analysis and administration, ensuring adherence to company policy and procedures?  Import data from one database format to another?  Monitor project status using MS-Project 2003?  Learn the different business/department processes and implement enhancement for efficiency in a fast-phase environment?  Consult manuals, periodicals and technical reports to learn new ways to develop programs and maintain existing skills and knowledge Optical Instrument Mechanic US Naval Ship Repair Facility - October 1977 to March 1985 Repairs and Overhauls various US Naval ElectoOptical instrument such as Binoculars, Telescopes, Transits, GunSights, RangeFinders, and the complex US Submarine Periscope.? Have been issued U.S. Security Clearance and have completed US Naval Class "A" training in US Submarine Periscope Overhaul. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS? ? Modeling Tools MS Visio? Tools MS-Access 2014, MS-Visual Studio 2015, MS-Project, MS-Office 2013? Language VBA, VB.NET? Technologies VBA, VB.NET? Reporting System Visual Studio Reporting System, SSIS, SSRS, MS_Access Reporting System? Databases MS Access 2014, MS-SQL 2014? Operating Systems Windows 10? Administration Windows 2013 Server, MS-Exchange, MS SQL 2014, Backup Exec 10.0
IT Manager - SQL Server DBA / ETL Developer / Application Developer / Network Admin;IT Business Manager I - SQL Server DBA / Database Developer;Database Administrator / Database Developer / Systems Programmer;Applications Programmer - ERP System Administrator:::IT Manager - SQL Server DBA / ETL Developer / Application Developer / Network Admin IT Manager - SQL Server DBA / ETL Developer / Application Developer / Network Admin Portland, OR - Work Experience IT Manager - SQL Server DBA / ETL Developer / Application Developer / Network Admin SOLOPOWER SYSTEMS INC - Portland, OR - 2016 to 2017 Oversaw a team of one in supporting the Solopower application, structure, and telecom solutions. Guided the development of a flexible web based manufacturing portal. Integrated data with existing process tool? output data collections to provide context based visualizations of manufacturing process tool parameters and performance for operators, quality, management and engineering teams.?  Recovered from ransomware attack; onsite block level backup software helped restore files from? backups that had completed 15 minutes before the attack.? o Updated antivirus software to Bitdefender after testing indicated that it could identify and stop a ransomware attack.?  Reworked SSIS package queries and file management to improve package ETL response times to run within a 2 minute window.?  Built a new SSIS Packages to collect process log data from new tools, e.g. one tool had a user? interface that permitted operators to select, display on the HIM and log parameters while the tool? was in operation.? ? ~~~~? Page Two? ?  Implemented backup scheduling of process tool computer images to a NAS device to regularly? capture tool upgrades and recipe changes in the event of a computer hardware failure or corruption. IT Business Manager I - SQL Server DBA / Database Developer CELESTICA OREGON LLC - Portland, OR - 2011 to 2016 Oversaw enterprise application support for manufacturing facilities in Portland and Wuxi, China. Directed? database staging and production application deployments. Extended monitoring tools, including? monitoring agent jobs, long running queries, critical service applications, and blocking notification?  Led ETL development to extract Portland and Wuxi ERP system data to populate a central? Celestica data warehouse.?  Developed data conversions to migrate existing ERP System data to support a future SAP? implementation at the Portland facility.?  Identified and recommended options for automating web application UAT beyond the established? unit and integration testing in place using Cucumber, Selenium / Web Driver.?  Introduced R for data analysis and speed for added facility reporting and data mining capabilities.?  Worked with Solopower at their Portland Oregon facility, providing DBA support for SQL Server Database Administrator / Database Developer / Systems Programmer BROOKS AUTOMATION - Portland, OR - 2006 to 2011 Functioned as SQL Server DBA, with a secondary role as Oracle Applications DBA - Administrative Support for PowerCerv / Verticent ERP Plus for Portland, OR and Wuxi, China facilities, support for corporate-wide? JDE, Oracle EBS databases and applications. Conducted weekly patch analysis for Oracle EBS and? database patches in the DEV, QA and Production environments. Delivered primary on-call support for SQL? Server based applications and batch processing for global manufacturing operations in North America,? Europe, and Asia.?  Recommended query response improvements and resource optimization; decreased batch time? from 10 hours to less than 10 minutes across a 14M record database.?  Designed and implemented a PowerCerv Multi-Plant feature to extend the existing ERP system? support to manufacturing operations in Wuxi China.?  Centralized SQL Server status reporting and logging to provide daily reports of database attribute? statuses.?  Defined requirements for a new installation on of SQL Server 2008. Tested, configured, and implemented SharePoint 2010 installation and Project Server on the database server.? ? Previous Role: Solopower's Manufacturing Execution System (MES) - 2008 to 2008 R2 installations.? o Resolved process machinery data collection (Wonderware InTouch, Rockwell Software? RSView23) communications with Solopower's Manufacturing Execution System (MES)? databases. Applications Programmer - ERP System Administrator Synetics Solutions Inc - Portland, OR - 2000 to 2006 Education Computer Science Southern Oregon State College - Ashland, OR Skills EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUP (10+ years), ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING (10+ years), ERP (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES? ? Database Administration: SQL Server [?] Oracle 9i-11g, MySQL? Operating Systems: Windows NT thru 2012, Linux, IBM AIX? Programming: T-SQL, PL/SQL, R, ASP.NET, C#, MVC, CSS, JavaScript, Ruby, Visual Basic, Visual Basic for? Application, PowerBuilder, Pascal, Visual C++, C, Lisp, Fortran, COBOL? Development and Scripting Environments: SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio 2005 - 2015,? PowerShell, SQL Developer, TOAD, Entity Framework / nHibernate, Cucumber, Selenium / Web Driver,? Ruby on Rails, Wonderware, InTouch, Rockwell Software RSView23, Borland Delphi v.3-5? Enterprise Application: Oracle EBS, JDE, PowerCerv ERP, SAP (WM QM)? Report Software: SQL Server reporting Service, JMP, Crystal Reports, Brio? Web / Application Servers Administration: IIS, Apache, Oracle Application Server, JBoss, Tomcat? LDAP: Microsoft Active Directory, Oracle Internet Directory? Enterprise Antivirus: Bitdefender, McAfee e-Policy Orchestrator? Source Code Management Software: Git
Liaison between application support team and business stake holders;Oracle Database Programmer;Oracle Database Programmer;Global Temporary tables redesigned the Customer Dashboard:::Liaison between application support team and business stake holders Liaison between application support team and business stake holders - Altice USA Bethpage, NY - Work Experience Liaison between application support team and business stake holders Altice USA - Bethpage, NY - January 2016 to Present formerly known as Cablevision Inc.), Bethpage NY 01/2016 - Till Date? ? * Key member of the team responsible for maintaining and creating new processes for Marketing Data Repository (MDR) using SQL, PL/SQL, Informatica & UNIX Shell scripting? * Designed and implemented the database design for Product Engagement & Churn process. This process tracks the customer usage across various available products and customer disconnects. Created new dimension and fact tables for this process using Shell script and PL/SQL programs which was automated using Appworx scheduler? * Automated a manual process for web activity forecasts; created Informatica workflow to load forecast & projection data into new fact tables. Created new stored procedures that loads web-activity actuals like unique visitors, initiated carts and chat sales from remote database using Oracle Database Links? * Created new procedure using Oracle's Exchange Partition feature to implement the archiving process for high volume fact tables? * Created a new process to load sales forecast data. Created a workflow in Informatica to load acquisition sales forecast & projection data into a fact table from a CSV file. A new stored procedure loads the actual acquisitions sales per day using a sales fact table? * Involved in complete redesign of the process to store ethnicity information for every individual at the household replacing the old process to store ethnicities at household level. Coordinated with external vendors to add new columns to the Inbound and Outbound file feeds. Modified existing Informatica workflows, shell scripts and created new PL/SQL programs & tables for successful implementation of this process? * Key member in a migration project to convert existing SAS processes into PL/SQL and automation using Appworx? * Replaced the existing Informatica workflow with SQL* Loader to process the FTC file with over 200 million rows in a file to update the customer suppression flags (e.g. Do Not Call indicators) in the system? * Redesigned existing programs to tune the performance of long running processes using temporary tables and Oracle hints? * Responsible for debugging production failures, root cause analysis and providing the work-around/corrective solutions in timely manner to meet the defined SLA. Proficient in debugging any Informatica issues, shell script and PL/SQL failures? * Continuously worked with the business team on data/process requests and provided concise clarification and analysis in timely manner? * Developed complex SQL queries that used analytical functions, aggregate functions and regular expressions to support ad-hoc data requests? * Regularly coordinated with MicroStrategy team to design new dimensions and facts for new reports? * Liaison between application support team and business stake holders for successful deployments to UAT and production environments Oracle Database Programmer Cypress P & C Insurance - Jacksonville, FL - January 2013 to January 2015 Oracle Database Programmer Crum & Forster Insurance - Morristown, NJ - March 2012 to December 2012 Global Temporary tables redesigned the Customer Dashboard Interboro Insurance - Mineola, NY - August 2008 to March 2012 Mineola, NY (Offshore - Mastek Ltd., India) 08/2008 - 03/2012? ? * Developed both inbound and outbound interfaces using PL/SQL programs and Oracle External tables to load data into targeted database and extract the data from the database to flat files? * Created various PL/SQL programs to replace client's existing multiple legacy systems to Majesco's single web-based application with provisions to maintain complete policy life cycle? * Created PL/SQL procedures using cursors, REF cursors, exception handling, Collections -Nested tables and Index of Table and Dynamic SQL for Rating module to calculate policy premium? * Using PL/SQL programs and database tables designed and implemented a very dynamic Event based output form generation process that will get the list of all output forms to be generated on each event? * Used PL/SQL features like Bulk Collect, FORALL, Global Temporary tables redesigned the Customer Dashboard in Billing Customer Service module to improve the performance from over 10 mins to few seconds? * Using UTL_FILE package and PL/SQL programs, created a process to send request to LexisNexis for Insured's MVR and CLUE records, read and load the response into transaction tables which is used in premium calculation? * Participated in system analysis and data modeling, which included creating new PL/SQL programs per the new business measures? * Worked with front end application developers to build a User-Interface designed in JAVA and provided them SQL queries and stored procedures? * Involved in creating/modifying various existing packages, procedures, functions and triggers per the new business requirements? * Developed/modified various output forms for Issuance, Endorsement, Cancellation and Renewal modules using Oracle Reports 6i? * Created insert scripts to setup new base rate factors whenever revised rates were introduced? * Used DBMS_OUTPUT package extensively to debug issues as part of the Level 1 support team? * Managed all back-end processes (PL/SQL programs) of Policy module to handle Policy Issuance, Endorsements, Cancellation and Renewals? * Created range-partitioned tables and global indexes on key tables to improve application performance? * Good experience in communicating with offshore team and acting as a liaison between the client and offshore team? * Worked closely with end-users and team members to understand business requirements that drive the analysis? * Trained business & IT users on various modules like Application entry, Issuance, Endorsements, Rating, Cancellation & Billing module? * Coordinating with the business users for System Test and User Acceptance Test Education Masters in Business Administration in conc. Information Technology Goldey-Beacom College Bachelors in Information Technology in Information Technology Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra Skills database (5 years), JAVA (3 years), Oracle (5 years), PL/SQL (5 years), SQL (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills Summary? Programming: C, C++, PL/SQL, SQL, JAVA/JSP, HTML, UNIX Shell Scripting? Database: Oracle [?] Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2? ? Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows? Tools: Oracle Developer Reports 9i/6i/4.5, SQL*Plus, SQL*Loader, TOAD, PL/SQL Developer, Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio, Informatica, SAS Enterprise Guide, Appworx Scheduler, Rational Clear Quest, JIRA? Version Control: Visual Source Safe (VSS), Tortoise SVN, PVCS? BI: MicroStrategy
nurse practitioners and other medical personnel;Ambulatory Service Representative;Senior Oracle Database Administrator, Engineering SCRUM Team;Senior Oracle Database Administrator:::nurse practitioners and other medical personnel nurse practitioners and other medical personnel - Beaumont Rehabilitation and Skilled Nursing Worcester, MA - Work Experience nurse practitioners and other medical personnel Beaumont Rehabilitation and Skilled Nursing - September 2016 to Present Sept. 2016 - present? Medical Information/Supply Management? ? * Manage medical records, filing, archiving and retrieval.? * File and conduct audits of medical records' content to ensure adherence to Agency policies and regulatory standards.? * Maintain a database and tracking system for medical records.? * Maintain confidentiality and discretion to comply with HIPPA regulations.? * Monthly training on dementia, behaviors, safety, abuse.? * Credential and/or re-credential physicians, nurse practitioners and other medical personnel.? * Perform quality improvement tasks.? * Manage, maintain and purchase medical/nursing supplies.? * Manage budget for supplies. Ambulatory Service Representative KNF&T Staffing - June 2016 to August 2016 - Contract? ? * Greet patients for scheduled appointments and procedures.? * Confirm and verify patient demographics and insurance information.? * Assess patients' needs including financial counseling, interpreter services, social services, etc.? * Obtain signatures of consent from patient/guardian for treatment authorization and insurance billing.? * Check patients in and out, schedule appointments/procedures as directed by clinicians or doctors.? * Answer all phone calls and direct to appropriate personnel.? * Obtain and follow up on referrals, authorizations as needed. Senior Oracle Database Administrator, Engineering SCRUM Team BOSE CORPORATION - 2013 to 2015 * Ensured efficient, on-time completion of projects in collaboration with project managers.? * Managed complex projects, including execution of more than 120 database upgrades.? * Provided value-added deliverables for new and existing projects, including data migration, product testing, technology upgrades, and technical support.? * Saved $200K in software licensing costs by transitioning to a new server.? * Reduced manual effort for database maintenance by 50% through process automation.? * Decreased time requirement for data backup and recovery by 8 hours.? * Reduced operational costs by implementing new, more efficient technology. Senior Oracle Database Administrator BOSE CORPORATION - 1995 to 2013 * Managed and supported Oracle SAP and non-SAP databases in a 24x7 production environment.? * Installed, upgraded, patched, monitored, and tuned databases, and controlled user accounts. Managed and supported Oracle databases in a 24x7 production environment.? * Planned, coordinated and implemented security measures to safeguard information for PCI compliance and audits.? * Led efforts to coordinate, schedule and implement database upgrades, patching and password resets.? * Worked with System Administrators to build out new Linux servers including physical layout, backups, restores, kernel parameters, storage and kernel patches.? * Developed and documented standards, procedures and guidelines for database tasks. Education Certificate Oracle University - Franklin, MA Microsoft Virtual Academy
Data Steward, Customer Information Security;Marketing Information Manager;Senior Quantitative Data Analyst/Team Leader;Database Marketing Analyst;Database Marketing Campaign Processor:::Data Steward, Customer Information Security Morgantown, PA - A data analyst having over fifteen years experience in the direct marketing and insurance industries. Known for reliability in completing projects along with the ability to analyze and convert data into useful information for business decisions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Steward, Customer Information Security TransAmerica - Frazer, PA - December 2015 to April 2016  Provided leadership and perform management functions for three direct reports.?  Partnered with IT, Customer Data, Campaign Operations and Analytics teams across the business to analyze, audit and define appropriate procedures for management, and use of customer data.?  Partnered with Enterprise Information Security team to design, deploy and maintain controls to protect sensitive customer information. Monitored and reported to Enterprise Data Governance leadership regularly on the status of the controls.?  Acted as an advocate for the policyholders ensuring that data practices are in line with customer privacy notices, affiliate data sharing agreements and other regulatory requirements.?  Defined requirements for vendors, including but not limited to: data management, data brokering, and customer data integration. Also participated in the vendor evaluation processes as necessary to ensure compliance.?  Maintained, updated, and communicated the organization's customer data governance policies and ensured in compliance with these policies along with industry best practices.?  Served as SME on enterprise projects that require the collection of and use of customer information. Marketing Information Manager - June 2007 to December 2015  Provided leadership and performed management functions for six direct reports. This included selection, performance management, employee development, work assignment and prioritization.?  Captured individual level consumer data on both policyholders and prospects to help marketers better understand purchases and usage behavior.?  Applied data management practices to ensure data consistency, quality and ease of access.?  Investigated, recommend and facilitated implementation of leading edge techniques and supporting technologies for consumer information management.?  Designed and developed marketing and analytic data marts through automated software processes reducing lead time over consumer insight and product delivery.?  Ensured quality controls over data sources were implemented. Worked closely with end users, peers and related business areas to ensure the integrity and timing of captured data.?  Developed and enhanced data management strategies that clearly defined necessary current, historical and appended attributes to improve consumer insight, acquisition and relationship management strategies. Senior Quantitative Data Analyst/Team Leader - December 2004 to June 2007  Responsible for the departmental workflow along with ensuring departmental deadlines were achieved.?  Produced profit indicator reports and summaries for Marketing to aid in business decisions.?  Monitored performance of statistical models and evaluated marketing efforts through slice and summary reports.?  Produced ad hoc reports to provide detailed analysis of marketing efforts to various business units and departments.?  Developed and maintained computer programs using SAS to accomplish customer analytics process.?  Obtained, evaluated and developed data files to be used for analysis and statistical modeling along with providing documentation and data files to statisticians for model building.?  Performed cross-system data extraction and transport between large databases and mainframe systems. Database Marketing Analyst - June 2002 to December 2004  Reviewed marketing program results using MS Access, SAS, Toad and MS Excel to determine future marketing opportunities and strategies.?  Audited data feeds from the administrative system to the campaign management application ensuring data was properly converted.?  Assisted Information Technology team in resolving problems and issues related to the campaign management database.?  Analyzed essential data elements needed to provide historical information such as customer preferences, demographics, customer profiles and responder tracking of marketing campaign success.?  Provided customer research assistance to Marketing for determining segmentation of the customer base in order to improve optimization and persistency.?  Performed routine database maintenance tasks including product upgrades and appending of data to existing database applications used for campaign management processing.?  Tested new offer optimization software products to improve overall performance of mailings. Database Marketing Campaign Processor - April 1998 to June 2002  Designed, prepared and executed system requirements for testing and implementing data feeds from a mainframe platform to Sybase and Oracle based applications.?  Developed testing requirements and assisted in the implementation of a new campaign management database system in order to facilitate greater in-house processing.?  Created data extracts for direct mail marketing campaigns using SQL in a Sybase environment resulting in the reduction of extraction time from one week to two days.?  Demonstrated to senior management and external parties the capabilities and advantages of the campaign management database system.?  Trained new hires on all aspects of the campaign processing position. Education High School Diploma Springfield High School - Springfield, PA Skills SAS (6 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), SQL (5 years) Additional Information Areas of expertise include:?  Data analysis  Excel spreadsheets and Access databases?  Working with relational databases  Troubleshooting database related issues?  SAS and SQL programming experience  Slide presentations and business reports? ? Technical Expertise:? ? Microsoft Access SAS? SQL Oracle? Toad Unix O/S functions? Microsoft Excel Microsoft PowerPoint
BMW Database Control Specialist;Inventory Control Specialist;Administrative Assistant;Arbitration Specialist;Catering Service Assistant Manager:::BMW Database Control Specialist BMW Database Control Specialist - Senator International Houston, TX - Work Experience BMW Database Control Specialist Senator International - 2012 to Present Handling of Data Entry for Export Shipments including.?  Coordinating and documenting shipment requirements in line with the company's quality of standards and proceduresQ?  Coordinate customer requests, i.e. providing shipping quotes, submit claims and create reports.?  Assist with reviewing, querying and approving invoices (freight, destination)?  Submit and file Invoices? ? Ocean Exports Coordinators?  Coordinate cargo bookings with Steam Ship Lines?  Process FCL and LCL shipments?  Prepare House and Master bills of Lading?  Export document compliance?  Tracking/Tracing Inventory Control Specialist JC Penney Logistics - 2010 to 2012 Keep records of all merchandise in facility?  Replenish locations as needed to be delivered to customers?  Cycle count locations to insure accuracy Administrative Assistant Firstline Health Systems - Marietta, GA - 2009 to 2010 Coordinate in-home patient care?  Process referrals from Insurance companies and Community Care Service Program?  Care management and coordination Arbitration Specialist Manheim Georgia Auto Auction - Atlanta, GA - 2007 to 2009 Assist customer with problems on vehicle purchase through our facility?  Maintains tracking files?  Handle vehicles being sent to service centers and customer, making sure? repairs are corrected in a reasonable amount of time?  Filing all paperwork away according to the proper coding on vehicles. Catering Service Assistant Manager Atlanta Airport Marriott - Atlanta, GA - 2005 to 2007 Making sure that diagram was correct for room setting, flooring and staging before banquet department could set the rooms?  Managing a team of 10-15 employees and making schedules Education Computer Information Systems West Georgia Technical College 2005 to 2009 Diploma in General Lovejoy High School 2000 to 2004 Additional Information Skills:? ? Excellent oral and written communication skills.? ? Extensive Computer and Technical Skills including:?  Development of standard operating procedures and new user training? ? Ability to work independently and as a team member? ? Supervisory skills including the ability to:?  Communicate well with co-workers, management, and outside vendors.?  Manage work assignments and gauge individual progress.?  Manage patient care and billing?  Manage and problem-solve issues for a staff? ? ? Power Industrial Truck (PIT) Licensed (Cherry picker, Stand Up, Sit down, tugger)
GIS Specialist/Data QA/QC;Database/GIS Specialist;Administrative/ GIS Specialist;Nation High Commissioner:::GIS Specialist/Data QA/QC GIS Specialist/Data QA/QC Alexandria, VA - A certified 8 years of GIS of constant hands-on experience in the field of database management, development and Geospatial services with USAID Administration,? Administrative Skills and recognized standards as Administrative for International Relief & Development IRD Trained field M&E personnel in the collection, processing and management of the program? GIS mapping and analysis for a variety of purposes? My field of experiences extends towards a motivated aid worker with UNHCR field operations in Kabul Encashment center as field monitoring focal point, Office administration in IRD Kabul office. I have worked throughout Afghanistan and Pakistan. Work Experience GIS Specialist/Data QA/QC Checchi / Company Consulting Inc - March 2011 to April 2014 Possess technical knowledge of geographic based information and planning activities; complex problem solving skills in mapping projects; Possess in-depth knowledge of GIS principles, concepts, and techniques including coordinate systems, transformations, projections,?  Use ESRI's GIS software and the ability to produce quality cartographic products and other presentation materials with high accuracy Perform geospatial data quality assurance and quality control functions in improving baseline data quality and accuracy Process descriptive data into spatial products (Maps) for a variety of purposes in a deadline-driven environment Using Database/GIS Specialist UAAID/ DAI - December 2010 to February 2011 Training all the ACEP program staff on the data collection techniques and methodologies to support program objectives and priorities?  Create Global Position System training manuals, train staff and data collection M&E people  Using ArcGIS, 10 plots activities and information on large/small scale maps at the provincial and district levels for a number of decision making purposes?  Create comprehensive reports, queries and manageable data archives to help the office, field staff and other key personnel in managing data on the grants distributed to farmers and recipients Administrative/ GIS Specialist IRD, USAID - January 2005 to December 2010 HRLS II? Coordinates with all Monitors gathers all field inspection reports from all sub offices based on schedule prepared by the Area Manager.?  Performs Monitoring Reports data quality assessment to meet IRD MIS system requirements professionally?  Makes copies and scans of the historic reports and documents for archiving purposes of the MIS system  Using ArcGIS, plots activities and information on large/small scale maps at the provincial and district levels?  Convert and arrange monitoring reports to other formats for further uses and analysis in the MIS workforce? Admin/Field Operation Nation High Commissioner Refugees - 2003 to 2004 Conducting Interviews with the newly arrived returnees from Countries of Asylum.?  Conducting Returnee monitoring to find out about Returnees status with in Countries of Asylum.?  Preparation of weekly and Monthly Refugee monitoring Reports &  Submission to UNHCR Field Office Kabul.?  Working in the EVI project with the community services.?  Referral of the EVI group.?  Team leader for the returnee monitoring at the Encashment center.? ? Skills:? GPS, GIS, Data collection, Data entry complete office and ploter. Education Bachelor in Computer Science Preston University
IT Manager, System/Network/Database Administrator;Software Development Intern;Entrepreneur;Senior Student Tech:::IT Manager, System/Network/Database Administrator IT Manager, System/Network/Database Administrator Verona, WI - IT Professional bringing 16+ years of industry experience, including 9 years as a System/Network Administrator and 7 years as? an IT Manager. In-depth understanding of business logic and processes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager, System/Network/Database Administrator Vortex Optics - Middleton, WI - May 2006 to December 2015  Managed a team of help desk technicians and developers?  Maintained the physical & virtual server environment?  Maintained the network infrastructure striving for 99.99% uptime?  Managed the internal ERP systems and customer facing website databases?  Programmed various scripts/utilities Software Development Intern Quad Graphics - Sussex, WI - June 2005 to August 2005  Developed a profile maintenance system for the child care branch of the company?  Followed system documentation to build the application, while asking questions and suggesting improvements to develop the best solution for the company?  Presented the prototype to superiors and users involved with the application Entrepreneur Self-employed - Columbus, WI - June 2003 to December 2003 Began and managed the partnership, dealt with taxes, accounting, advertising, sales, customer support, and purchases Senior Student Tech Columbus High School - Columbus, WI - May 1999 to August 2002  Managed the High School's server and network while attending as a student?  Deployed images to computer labs?  Provided PC/Mac support to the building diagnosing software & hardware issues?  Created user accounts and managed the Novell server network?  Trained new student techs Education Bachelor of Science in Management Computer Systems University of Wisconsin - Whitewater, WI 2006 Additional Information Skills?  Windows Servers [?]  Cisco Firewalls, Routers, Switches, and Access Points?  Linux Servers (Ubuntu, FreeBSD)  Oracle, SQL Server, and MySQL Administration?  SAN Administration using iSCSI & NFS  ADS, Exchange 2010, IIS, DHCP, DNS, Apache?  VMWare ESXi, VMWare Horizon Suite  Programming experience with PHP, JavaScript, Shell? Scripting, HTML/CSS
Director of Development;Software Development Manager;NCO;Senior Programmer/ Information Engineer;Database / Software Developer:::Director of Development Director of Development at SUNCOAST SOLUTIONS Tampa, FL -  Strong project manager with experience in multiple software development methodologies (Agile, Scrum, Waterfall). Able to adapt management strategy to the needs of the project and skills of the team.?  Breadth of Industry Experience: Retail, Government, Telecommunications, Healthcare, Financial Services?  Ability to provide strategic and tactical leadership by combining strong technical and management experience to identify opportunities to improve development processes and product quality?  At ease communicating with all organizational levels to ensure projects are delivered on time within scope and budget. Technical background allows deeper insight into project opportunities and risks?  Experienced software development manager, with responsibility for selection, retention, and growth of development teams?  Extensive Microsoft C# and VB.Net software development experience (Client-Server, Web-Based, OOP, Web Services)?  Ability to evaluate current and emerging technologies to identify opportunities for implementation based on strategic fit. Work Experience Director of Development SUNCOAST SOLUTIONS - Clearwater, FL - December 2010 to Present 12/2010 to Present?  Currently manage a team of 10 developers, 5 QA analysts, and 2 technical writers to develop and support our core products and custom applications. Coordinate efforts with product owners to manage the software development process in a Scrum environment. Key participant in the technical direction and leadership of our .Net products. Periodically perform code reviews to manage quality and mentor developers.? Key Contributions at Suncoast Solutions:  Completed top down evaluation of the current state of .Net client/server application conversion efforts to recommend short and medium term options to stabilize the application and prepare for future growth. Initiated stabilization efforts to improve performance of core application.? ?  Staffed and currently manage a team of .Net developers augmented with external consulting resources to create the next generation of our core product using a modern C# WCF service based MVC3 architecture. Responsible for overall architectural direction and project management using MSF for Agile 5.0 in Team Foundation Server. Key goals of project were to allow support for mobile devices, support test driven development? ?  Improved source code and release management process in Team Foundation Server by leveraging branching strategies to isolate critical path work and trained team on code management methodologies. This helped dramatically improve the quality of service packs and gave flexibility to withhold untested code while meeting contractual and regulatory deliverables for critical application enhancements.? ?  Assessed and revised monthly Sprint process to compensate for application and personnel challenges which were resulting in high Product Owner and customer dissatisfaction. Improved cohesion and communication between product owners, quality assurance analysts, and developers.? ?  Provided leadership on Business Intelligence product which was 2 years overdue. Organized team to focus on product delivery, by creating a solid project plan, test plans and frameworks, and holding team to agreed upon scope. Product is now rolling out to early adopters.? ?  Provide project management for high profile product enhancements. Manage requirements, scope, quality, and delivery of various initiatives Software Development Manager TALLAN, INC - Tampa, FL - December 2005 to December 2010 12/2005 to 12/2010? ?  Provided on-site project management and team leadership to Retail and Healthcare clients, including 3+ years at Talbots. Engaged in multiple projects spanning several areas of Talbots' retail business including Merchandising, Sales, and Customer Systems. Reported directly to Vice President of Software Development. Routinely interact with Talbots VP's, SVP's, and Directors.? ?  As a manager at Tallan, personnel responsibilities included career management of technical resources, performance evaluations, participation in employee selection process, goal setting and review, performance improvement plans, and team building.? Key Contributions at Talbots:  Managed team of 7 consultants to successfully deliver a $1M business intelligence reporting project. Effort involved working with VP of Store Administration to develop business requirements, identify and source data from several business groups and 3rd party vendors, integrate into Enterprise Data Warehouse including ETL, data validation, cubes, and performance optimization.? ?  Improved process for defining future reporting by introducing metadata management concepts to data warehouse team and senior management. Created metadata management tool prototype and suggested comprehensive changes to the requirements process to shorten report development timelines.? ?  Managed Visual Basic .Net Web Service application project which allowed Point of Sale system to display customer purchase history data from DB2 database to store registers and mobile devices.? ?  Directed development of application to facilitate real time point of sale transaction reporting to data warehouse. Solution used MSMQ, SQL Server 2005, and Visual Basic.Net to capture, parse, and post high volume transaction messages to transactional tables.? ?  Led development of supply chain integration web application which reduced lead time for the manufacturing lifecycle by dramatically shortening the communication process between Talbots merchandising and sourcing teams in U.S. and overseas vendors. Invited to accompany Talbots management to Asia to demonstrate system to business partners. Technologies used: Oracle 9i, Microsoft SQL Server 2005, ASP.Net, Visual Basic.Net NCO Health Care Clients - Charleston, SC - January 2005 to December 2005  At CareCentrix, managed enhancement project to core claims processing applications and back end systems. Gained understanding of patient intake processes and provider/physician data management? ? Other:  Responsible for the strategic vision of Tallan's Metadata Management offering, including the writing of white papers, webinars, web content, and application design. http://www.tallan.com/solutions/pages/bimetadata.aspx. Fills a void in the Microsoft marketplace in managing metadata in a SQL Server environment and helps business and IT communicate more effectively.? NCO / OSI OUTSOURCING SOLUTIONS- Charleston, SC? Solutions Architect 1/2005 to 12/2005? ?  Designed web-based solution to manage capacity planning, inventory forecasting, and staffing for 40+ call centers using C#.Net, ASP.Net and MS Sql Server. Included creation of planning tools for Senior VP's to manage changes to staffing and work volumes. Worked directly with SVP of Operations and VP of Strategy to define requirements.? ?  Designed enterprise wide employee productivity system which coordinates inbound and outbound call systems with attendance control and financial data. Application quantifies employee productivity, identifies areas for improvement, and serves as basis of incentive plans. Development required extensive interaction with other systems using ETL via Microsoft DTS as well other batch based processes. This application has evolved into being the core productivity system in over 40 call centers owned by the parent company. Senior Programmer/ Information Engineer PDIT /MODULANT - Charleston, SC - September 2000 to January 2005  Led development team to design, develop, and maintain a suite of database driven applications designed to support the U.S. Dept of State, including Financial, Procurement, and Inventory systems. Included extensive interaction with senior Program Managers at Dept. of State to gather requirements and design application.? ?  Worked directly with Senior Program Manager at U.S. Dept. of State to design several applications in support of a major computer systems refresh across all US embassies worldwide. This 2+ year project included the design and development of a Financial System, Inventory System, and Procurement application to manage the planning, purchasing, warehousing, distribution, and reconciliation of equipment. Developed in VB6, Vb.Net, Asp.Net, and SQL Server with both client/server and web front ends. Responsibilities included design, systems architecture, development, managing developers, and end user demonstrations and training.? ?  Maintained Secret Clearance Database / Software Developer INTERACTIVE PERFORMANCE, INCORPORATED /OSI - Charleston, SC - April 1999 to September 2000  Designed enterprise wide employee productivity system which coordinates inbound/outbound call systems with attendance control and financial data. Application quantifies employee productivity, identifies areas for improvement, and serves as basis of incentive plans. Development required extensive interaction with other systems using ETL via Microsoft DTS as well other batch based processes. This application has evolved into being the core productivity system in over 40 call centers owned by the parent company.? ?  Developed and deployed multi-center employee information database utilizing intuitive user management tools to maintain team and reporting structures throughout the organization.? ?  Created and implemented account inventory management system that tracks real-time account statistics on 300 users at multiple call centers.? ?  Designed web-based analytical reporting engine that provides a 'digital dashboard' of company performance. Education MBA in Business Administration UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA -MOORE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS - Moore, SC 2006 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science COLLEGE OF CHARLESTON - Charleston, SC 1999 Skills Project Manager, Application Development Manager, .Net, C#, SQL Server Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/brian-gager-pmp-mba/b/857/849 Certifications/Licenses PMP Publications Metadata Management Whitepaper http://www.linkedin.com/redir/redirect?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww%2Einformationweek%2Ecom%2Fwhitepaper%2FBusiness-Intelligence%2FDatamarts-Data-Warehouses%2Fare-you-giving-metadata-management-the-right-atte-wp1246453825277%3Bjsessionid%3DNJZWIDYS432N3QE1GHPCKH4ATMY32JVN&urlhash=Bp4i
Program Director I;Clinical Engagement Specialist, National Children's Study Provider;REDCap Database Developer;Principal:::Program Director I Program Director I - University of Massachusetts Medical School Northborough, MA - Work Experience Program Director I University of Massachusetts Medical School - 2013 to Present Overall direction and budgetary management of the Parental Mental Health Study? * Developed operations, quality assurance activities, and wrote Standard Operating Procedures? * Developed related data collection documents and media materials? * Outlined content for and coordinated the development of a tracking database? * Developed a training program and materials for project staff? * Hired, trained, and supervised recruiter/interviewers and a project assistant for enrollment of 1200 participants, and completion of telephone interviews, data entry, and quality assurance activities.? * Coordinated IRB oversight including submission of modifications, Reportable New Information documents, and Continuing Reviews? * Wrote monthly and quarterly progress reports for the prime contractor? * Developed and currently implementing a study close-out plan. University of Massachusetts Medical School - Worcester, MA - 2011 to Present Clinical Engagement Specialist, National Children's Study Provider University of Massachusetts Medical School - 2012 to 2013 Coordinated development of media materials for participant recruitment? * Coordinated completion of practice profile questionnaires by prenatal care providers in Central Massachusetts.? * Engaged prenatal care providers and developed site-specific procedures for recruitment of study participants? * Collaborated in the development of Study Center procedures for collection of 5 biological specimens? * Recruited post-partum study subjects in the hospital for questionnaire-only participation and for questionnaire-plus-biological-specimen participation following established protocols.? * Completed data entry from paper-based study instruments into a Navigator electronic database? * Submitted periodic data reports to the National Children's Study program office. REDCap Database Developer University of Massachusetts Medical School - 2011 to 2012 Developed and tested REDCap databases for clinical research projects:? Neurology Department, Contractor? Psychiatry Department, Volunteer Principal Nutrition Evaluation and Counseling Services - Wallingford, PA - 1990 to 2005 Contracted with the Delaware Division of Public Health to provide nutrition therapy for patients and occasional staff in-service on nutrition as part of an interdisciplinary team in homes and clinics throughout New Castle County, Delaware:? o Delaware Diamond Deliveries: for pregnant women with drug addictions? o Child Development Watch (Early Intervention) Program: for families of developmentally delayed newborns, infants, and toddlers including those with genetic, medical, neurological, and developmental disorders. Education Certificate in Clinical Data Management Boston University Metropolitan College - Boston, MA 2012 Certificate in Project Management University of Massachusetts - Lowell, MA 2011 Master of Science in Food Science and Human Nutrition University of Delaware - Newark, DE 1982 General Dietetic Internship St. Louis University - St. Louis, MO 1980 Bachelor of Science in Home Economics Mansfield University - Mansfield, PA 1979 Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE? * Project Planning/Coordination * Research Writing/Terminology * Self-Motivated/Detail Oriented? * Clinical Data Management * Form design * Strong Life Sciences Foundation? * Analytical/Critical Thinking? ? MAC and Windows; Microsoft Office Suite; Entourage; REDCap; Proficient with Email and Internet; Basic Knowledge of SQL Language, Adobe Illustrator, Quicken Essentials, Microsoft Project and Microsoft Access; Knowledge of Computer Hardware
Part-time Technical Instructor;Senior Technical Specialist;Staff Connect;Database Analyst Intern:::Part-time Technical Instructor Oracle DBA Takoma Park, MD - Talented Oracle DBA looking for a new position to grow an learn in. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Part-time Technical Instructor Chaveran Inc - Bowie, MD - 2015 to Present 2015? * Trained students in UNIX and LINUX platforms administration? * Trained students in installing and configuring Oracle ASM and the Oracle RAC stack? * Assisted in writing technical manuals for on-site Linux Administrators? * Assisted in developing training material for interns? * Designed and maintained student mail, SSH Jumpbox and web servers? * Assisted in building and maintaining the Chaveran cloud through various virtualizations? * Installed and configured Red Hat file servers and other Linux appliances? * Installed and configured Linux firewalls for client using iptables and bind? * Developed hardware requirements specification and assisted in other sizing activities? . Senior Technical Specialist Optoro - October 2012 to Present Installation, configuration and upgrading of Oracle server software and related products? * Evaluate Oracle features and Oracle related products? * Establish and maintain sound backup and recovery policies and procedures? * Database design and implementation? * Implement and maintain database security (create and maintain users and roles, assign privileges)? * Perform database tuning and performance monitoring? * Setup and maintain documentation and standards? * Plan growth and changes (capacity planning)? * Work as part of a team and provide 24x7 support when required? * Perform general technical troubleshooting and give consultation to development teams? * Interface with Oracle Corporation for technical support? * Patch Management and Version Control? * Create database objects (tables, indexes, etc.)Design and implement Disaster Recovery Solutions? * Assist developers with database activities? * RAC Configuration and Management? * Install and configuration of Oracle Data Guard? * Database monitoring using OEM Grid Control? * Agent Deployment to database servers for monitoring? * File system management? * Remedy ticketing system Staff Connect - 2011 to 2012 Installation, configuration and upgrading of Oracle server software and related products? * Evaluate Oracle features and Oracle related products? * Establish and maintain sound backup and recovery policies and procedures? * Take care of the Database design and implementation? * Implement and maintain database security (create and maintain users and roles, assign privileges)? * Perform database tuning and performance monitoring? * Setup and maintain documentation and standards? * Plan growth and changes (capacity planning)? * Work as part of a team and provide 7x24 support when required? * Perform general technical troubleshooting and give consultation to development teams? * Interface with Oracle Corporation for technical support? * RAC Configuration and Management? * Install and configuration of Oracle Data Guard? * Patch Management and Version Control? * Implement and maintain the database design? * Create database objects (tables, indexes, etc.)? * Creating and rebuilding indexes as necessary Database Analyst Intern Points North - 2010 to 2011 Upgrading of Oracle server software and related products? * Establish and maintain sound backup and recovery policies and procedures? * Take care of the Database design and implementation? * Implement and maintain database security (create and maintain users and roles, assign privileges)? * Perform database tuning and performance monitoring? * Perform general technical troubleshooting and give consultation to development teams? * Implement and maintain the database design? ? ajgrout@gmail.com ?? (651)307-9652? ? * Create database objects (tables, indexes, etc.)? * Write database procedures, functions and triggers? * Tune database queries? * Creating and rebuilding indexes as necessary? * Develop C# software application to analyze and update MS SQL database values Education B.A. in Computer Information Systems College of Saint Scholastica - Duluth, MN 2011 B.A. in Economics College of Saint Scholastica - Duluth, MN 2011 Additional Information Technical Skills? Known Technologies:? * SQL Language * Oracle ASM? * Linux Shell Scripting * Linux LAN/WAN Networking? * PL/SQL * Object Oriented Programming? * Oracle Data Guard * GNU/Linux OS - Red Hat? * Windows OS * C# and Java? * TCP/IP Networking? ? Tools, Utilities and Applications? :? * SQL Loader * Quest Toad? * Oracle SQL Developer * WinSCP, Putty? * SQL Data Modeler * Microsoft Office, Visio? * Oracle 12c Cloud Control * Oracle RMAN? ? Security Clearance? None Held, but easily Clearable? ? Languages? : English, Spanish (intermediate)
Software Engineer;Software Engineer;Sr. Software Developer;Web Application/Database Developer;Sr. Application Developer:::Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer Chillicothe, OH - Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer IBM - Watson Health - July 2016 to May 2017 Worked within an agile team of 30+ Developers and testers, to develop a new version of a legacy application (ActionOI), which virtually every health care agency (Hospitals, Pharmacies, Doctor's offices, etc.) are members of. The application allows members to upload, configure, and normalize there statistical patient and non-patient data. The data is used by the members to run different reports, and compare their data items to those of other customers/facilities.? ? Helped maintain the legacy version of ActionOI.? ? Developed an ActionOI Monitoring system, to help CM monitor automated jobs, builds, and deployments to all environments.? ? Technologies: C# ASP.Net 4.5 MVC 5, Telerik-Kendo-UI, TypeScript, JQuery, JSON, CSS, HTML, XML, Dapper, VB.Net, VB Script, SQL Server 2012-2014, SVN, Git, Visual Studio 2010 and 2015 Software Engineer The James Group LLC - October 2015 to May 2016 Creating full software solutions to meet the needs of clients.? ? Updating existing software and/or databases, based on the specific requirements.? ? Deploying and configuring applications? ? Configuring IIS settings for new or updated web applications? ? Configuring DNS records (when needed)? ? Installing custom Windows Services? ? Designing graphics for both internal and client needs using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator CS6? ? Clients / Projects:? ? ShamrockFamilyFunCenter.com? * A dynamic, responsive web site/application that allows users to book birthday parties, sign up for bowling and soccer leagues, and rent bouncy inflatables.? * Perform all parts of development process (creating graphics, skinning, database schema, code development, QA, client communication, domain purchase and management, hosting server configuration).? * Built on a custom instance of UmbracoCMS, and installed and customized Merchello(a light weight, eCommerce UmbracoCMS plugin).? * Created a custom Umbraco plugin that allows the admin to configure the party booking time-blocks.? * Created a custom Merchello-shipping provider, which calculates the shipping price based on distance (this was primarily for calculating the cost of delivering an inflatable rental during checkout).? * Technologies: C# Asp.net 4.5 MVC 5, Linq to Entity framework 6.0, SQL Server 2014, LESS, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, AngularJS, UmbracoCMS? ? National Machinery LLC? * QuikCalcePlus, which is a web based calculation program created by National Machinery's Met-MAX Innovations team that simplifies customary cold forming calculations.? * Created functionality to allow users to export saved projects to a PDF document using MigraDocs and PDFSharp, along with several other updates/enhancements to several features of the application. Also, moved the application to new server due to hosting environment issues.? * Technologies: C# Asp.net 4.0 (Webforms), SQL Server 2012, Linq to Entity framework 4.0, MigraDocs and PDFSharp? ? Charity Web Application (Cannot disclose name)? * Developing a very dynamic web application, that allows users to donate money without spending extra money.? * Technologies: C# Asp.net 4.5 MVC 5, LESS, JQuery, Linq to Entity framework 6.0, SQL Server 2012 Sr. Software Developer Kenworth Truck Co - September 2014 to October 2015 Work in an agile and SOX compliant environment (in the Chillicothe plant's IT department), while remotely working with the rest of the Kenworth division developers(at headquarters in Renton, WA)? ? Attend daily standup meetings, and bi-weekly sprint planning meetings (remotely)? ? Support over 150 applications within the plant (Applications that were written VB.Net, C#, Classis ASP, VBScripts)? ? Created lots of custom SQL scripts to enhance or fix existing functionality, and also just to fix data issues.? ? Create new applications to support the plant's needs in VB or C#, and MS SQL.? ? Top Project:? ? Paperless NCPs (Non-Conforming Part) Reporting? * Application allowing production workers to quickly fill out a short form, and print out an "NCP Ticket" (that they can attach to a damaged part), and instantly decrement inventory. This replaced a manual process of filling out a ticket by hand.? * Creating wireframes for UI entry form? * Creating data schema with the team (MS SQL 2014 database)? * Developed the entry form, and admin screens to reprint, and return-to-stock? * Created API to receive print job requests, and add them to a queue table in an MS SQL 2014 database.? * Created a generic printing windows service using C#.Net 4.5, which processed any print jobs in a custom queue.? * Develop logic to save a form entry to the database, send inventory decrement commands to the mainframe, and send a print request to the API Web Application/Database Developer Switchbox Inc - April 2012 to September 2014 Estimating and developing C# ASP.Net 4-4.5 web applications application for clients.? ? Creating and incorporating all business rules to meet the needs of the business at hand.? ? Design relational databases for the applications using MS SQL Server 2012? ? Deploying and, configuring, and maintaining applications and databases? ? Top Clients/Projects:? ? Office of the Ohio Treasurer? * Created a B2B web application for the Ohio Treasure's Economic Development division. It consists of a public portal, where business owners, home owners, and farmer's bankers can fill out an application for loans at a very low interest rate. The treasury admins have a portal to approve/deny the applications, run reports, and many other administrative features.? * Developed all parts of the project? * Extensive QA and testing? * Deploying to a test environment inside the Treasurer's network, on a very frequent basis? * Created migration sql scripts, to migrate data from 5 different systems/sources(and 4 different formats: access, xml, sql, excel), into the new database and new data schema.? * Technologies: C# Asp.net 4.0 webforms, MS SQL 2012, WCF Data Service, JQuery? ? Office of the Ohio Treasurer? * Created www.ohiocheckbook.com (Number 1 ranked transparency website in the nation).? * Version 1.0 of the entire solution was launched November, 2014, and took just over 1 year from start to launch.? * The software (at a very high level) consists of:?  A completely dynamic, data driven public facing web application to view State and Local government spending (in many different ways/formats).?  Some features of this application:?  Lots of custom tools/features to get the user to the data they are looking for more efficiently?  Extensive HighChart API integration (for charting features)?  A very comprehensive/visually appealing Compare Tool, to compare data in many different ways?  Data exports and social media sharing?  Type-Ahead/Auto-Complete Search?  A custom "HashTag" (#) URL schema/format, to allow sharing the link to the exact page? - A requirement was for the URL to reflect the exact page state at all times, but the client didn't want full page refreshes (so query strings weren't an option).?  Advanced search? - A portal that State/Local Agencies and "Political Subdivisions" can login to, and redact/blacklist transactions that their Agency made(which removes the name of the vendor from the transaction, once the blacklist is approved by the treasurer's administration).? - An intranet administration web application for the Treasurer to login to? - Some purposes of this portal:? ? Ability to "approve" or "deny" transaction black-listings requested by an agency.? ? Ability to create, edit, approve/deny, and deactivate/reactivate Agency Portal user accounts.? ? Blacklist/Whitelist transactions? ? Toggling Public facing database connection string between (1 or 2).? ? One database gets updated (via the ETL process that the DBA group created) with fresh/up-to-date spending data, while the other is in Read-Only mode for public facing reporting. Once one is updated, the connection string of the public website can be toggled, and a seamless update of data is now available for the public to view.? ? Ability to turn the Public web application On/Off (in case of emergency privacy breach situations, and redirects all traffic a custom "Temporarily Offline" page)?  Developed all parts of the project apart from the Photoshop design files, core data schema, and the ETL process?  Attending teleconferences multiple times per week, and providing a status update to the client?  Extensive QA and testing?  Constantly meeting deadlines set during our status meetings?  Deploying to a test environment inside the Treasurer's network, on a very frequent basis (using VMWare)?  Technologies used: C# Asp.Net 4.0 (Using a mixture of MVC 4, Webforms, and WebAPI), WCF Services were used for communicating between the Admin Portal Application(that sets behind a firewall for intranet access only) and the public webserver, Extensive JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, HighCharts (for charting), MS SQL 2012?  All data was retrieved with Stored Procedures and Views?  (finely tuned queries to search through 100s of Millions of records, and return the results in a very timely manner)?  Utilized Entity framework 4 to call most stored procs, as well as CRUD operations on the portals.?  Used raw ADO.Net calls for most of the datasets for prompt data and .CSV exports? ? Ohio Judicial Conference? * Helped create an updated version of their public site, and member management system. (This version was never launched due to disagreements in the scope of the contract)? * Technologies: C# Asp.net 4.0 Webforms, Linq to Entity framework, SQL Server 2008? * Created back-end admin/CRUD user interfaces to allow managing Judges and their statuses, pending Legislation, Committees, and Courts, for administrative reports.? * Created a recursive document repository administrative page? * Integrated with Constant Contacts for a custom email blasting tool.? ? Nationwide Children's Hospital? * Made several enhancements to their online Greeting Cards application (Which allows a user to easily create personalized greeting cards, and send them to a patient)? * Create functionality to Encrypt all patient information before it is stored in the database? * Upgraded from .Net 2.0 to 4.0? * Created functionality to make the Clipart images load dynamically? * Fixed several issues causing the application to error when users navigate the browsers history buttons? * Extensive QA and testing? * Deploying to a test environment, and final production onsite? * Technologies: C# Asp.net 2.0/4.0 MVC 2, Linq to Entity framework, SQL Server 2008? ? American Municipal Power, Inc.? * Created EfficiencySmart.org web application, which was built using a custom CMS framework that I helped create.? * Developed all parts of the project? * Extensive QA and testing? * Deploying to a test environment? * Technologies: C# Asp.net 4.0 Webforms, Linq to Entity framework, SQL Server 2008, Responsive CSS, JQuery? ? Marysville High School? * Created a web application to manage student grade information, and print transcripts as PDF files, formatted to a very specific format.? * Gathered requirements for specific details? * Developed all parts of the project? * Extensive QA and testing? * Deploying to a test environment, and final production onsite? * Technologies: C# Asp.net MVC 4.0, Linq to Entity framework, SQL Server 2012 Sr. Application Developer Opulent Source - April 2008 to April 2012 Gather all requirements and specifics of client projects.? ? Create project proposals, (I create and include a graphical demonstration of the layout for web project proposals).? ? Create and maintain VB/C# ASP.Net web applications and VB.Net windows forms application for clients. Creating and incorporating all business rules to meet the needs of the business at hand.? ? Design relational databases for each and every project using MS SQL Server 2005-2008 or MS Access.? ? Maintain hosted sites on our web server which includes:? ? setting up websites in IIS? ? setting up any databases using SQL Server Management Studio? ? adding any required DNS Records? ? backing up databases? ? Managing DNS records for domain names such as: A records, MX Records, CName Records, TXT Records.? ? Top Clients/Projects? ? Ross County Coroner's Office? * Created the case management system that the Ross County Coroner's office uses today.? * This system replaced their old legacy system, and allows them to work on cases at the scene, and later import them into the master database.? * Checking-In/Out (Locking/Unlocking) cases to/from the master database, to prevent case data from accidentally being overwritten while another user is working on it offline.? * Very case specific, "windows explorer style", drag-and-drop document repository? * Custom zip code/county auto complete feature, for filling in the county when only the zip code is known, or a popup list of available zip codes within a county(when only a county is provided)? * Print all standard and some custom Coroner reports? MS Access 2003, Crystal Reports? * Develop new data schema? * Redevelop version 1, while gathering details/specifications for all of the enhancements to be implemented in version 2 (which was primarily the employer portal, to login and create/manage their job listings)? * Deploy test and production versions? ? Pike Co. Health District? * Created their public site, using a custom CMS that I developed? ? Meigs Co. Health District? * Created their public site, using a custom CMS that I developed? ? The Scioto Society? * Created an online reservation system for the Tecumseh Outdoor Drama.? * This system allowed the administrators to manage Special Events, Show Dates and times, Discounts, Promo Codes, Alerts/Messages. Users could go to the public site and book reservations, and use promo codes if they had any.? * Developed all parts of the project? * Created lots of administrative reports? * Deployed to test and production? * Maintenance? * Technologies: VB Asp.net 3.5 web forms, MS SQL 2008, Javascript, Html , CSS? ? City of Chillicothe? * The City of Chillicothe's public website (at the time), was developed by Opulent Source prior to my employment, but I maintained and updated sections of this site for about 4 years.? ? Dysart Corporation? * Created Hamilton Home Products ecommerce web site, using NopCommerce? * Technologies: C# Asp.net 3.5 web forms, MS SQL 2012, WCF Data Service, JQuery? ? Other Notable Projectes? ? * Created and implemented six e-commerce websites using nopCommerce? * Created an application that captures still frames from the web cam and continuously uploads them to a server. I created a web application to view these still frames as they are being captured, resulting in a live video feed. Multiple web cams can be configured and remotely toggled on/off by pinging specific URL and querystring.? * Created an FTP client, similar to Filezilla.? * Created a PhoneGap app for proof-of-concept. It consists of a big red div, and as you rotate the phone and resize the div(using 2 fingers, and sliding 2 corners together or away), a div on an external website is resized and rotated exactly the same at the same time (I used signalR for this part).? * Created a code generator written in C#.Net. Creates relational, data management web forms, dropdown lists, gridviews, checkbox lists, and radiobutton lists usercontrols. All usercontrols instantly have all the code to load/save the data for the tables they tied to. (Code can be generated in both VB and C#)? * Created a very dynamic web form builder that stores to a database, and if SMTP information is configured, will email the submissions. The form designer allows reordering by drag-and-drop, and resizing with you mouse. Any web control which derives from the System.Web.UI.Control, can be configured and customized to be used in the form designer, by simply registering them in the control admin section. (Too many features to list)? * Created a VB.Net code generator, that generated all CRUD queries for a data schema (written in VB.Net)? * Created an automatic software updating feature, which we implement into all of our windows applications at Opulent Source. This allowed for quick and immediate software updates Education Information Technology Kaplan University May 2006 to March 2008 Drafting and Design ITT Technical School September 2005 to April 2006 Skills ASP (9 years), C# (9 years), MS SQL Server (9 years), SQL (9 years), SQL Server (9 years) Additional Information Skills/Technologies? ? Operating System: Windows [?] Windows Server 03-2012? ? Languages: C#, VB.NET, SQL, JavaScript, Typescript, Java, Java(Android), PowerShell? ? Technologies: .NET Framework (v1.0, 1.1, 2.0, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, and 4.5), ASP.NET, MVC, WebForms, WinForms, ADO.NET, WCF Services, MS Web API, SQL, T-SQL, LINQ, Entity Framework [?] DAO, XML, HTML, CSS, LESS, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, AngularJS, SignalR, SOAP, ASP Classic, Crystal Reports, SSRS Reports, Telerik-Kendo UI, DevExpress Tools? ? Databases: MS SQL Server [?] MS Access [?]? ? Software: Microsoft Visual Studio [?] MS SQL Management Studio [?] IIS 7.5, 7.0, 6.0 and 5.1, MS Visio, Visual SVN (Source Control), MS Team Foundation Server, Git, Adobe Photoshop 2-6, Adobe Illustrator 2-6, MS Office, MS Outlook, LINQ, Entity Framework, Umbraco CMS, PhoneGap? ? Design: Very well traversed in designing and producing graphical content for user interfaces and reporting.? ? Networking: Solid understanding of TCP/IP, HTTP, FTP, DNS, DHCP. Experienced in network architecture, tuning and security.
Marketing Assistant;Executive Assistant;Human Resources Assistant:::Digital Communications and Database Specialist Digital Communications and Database Specialist - Arts for Learning, Woodruff Arts Center Smyrna, GA - Work Experience Digital Communications and Database Specialist Arts for Learning, Woodruff Arts Center - March 2010 to Present Oversees all updates and maintenance to the organization's website and leverages the site specifically to support the Sales Department and its sales initiatives?  Assists with front-end build out and development of website utilizing our content management platform,Sitecore?  Handles the creation of new website pages, modules, and interactive elements?  Develop the look and feel of websites through wireframes, mockups, prototypes, specifications, and final deliverable?  Creates graphics for website, newsletters and brochures as needed, using Adobe Creative Suite 6?  Creates the e-link newsletters and works with the marketing department to ensure these go out as scheduled to 7000 + customers?  Participate in efforts to integrate marketing and communications and in efforts to continuously improve the corporate website and digital presence.?  Manages Scheduling Solution and Website Redesign projects?  Compiles website analytics data and creates reports for Marketing Committee meetings using Google Analytics?  Maintains all Arts for Learning's constituent lists and related databases through Tessitura Software Data Management System?  Implements and assists in the architectural design and conversion of systems that may be involved or become part of the database systems.?  Acts as liaison for Tessitura Power Users Group, Technology Council and Web Power Users?  Takes part in managing all contacts in the Tessitura database, including being responsible for assigning attributes and updating profiles where applicable?  Prepares and assist in editing data reports for sales, programming and development?  Creates ad-hoc reports for sales and development team?  Trains staff on the use of the company's standard software applications/databases, as well as standards?  Identifies and recommends procedures, solutions and improvements for accuracy, integrity and efficiency of database programs and their usage.?  Create and document processes and procedures for the Sales Team?  Provides support to end-users on database systems.?  Oversees database procedures, which may include confirming use of accurate entry processes; identifying and eliminating duplicate records; archiving of records.?  Generates all necessary contract documents, and distributing contract documents to the appropriate parties?  Serve as the point-of-contact for YA roster artists for the purpose of maintaining artist records in scheduling database, website, other duties as assigned? ? Digital Communications and Database Coordinator? Database Responsibilities:?  See job description above? Digital Communications Responsibilities:?  Oversees all updates and maintenance to the organization's website; Maintains website content and creates any new website pages or graphics, modules and interactive elements.?  Provides support on all online campaigns and promotions.?  Supports any Woodruff Arts Center Web-based initiative as needed.?  Remains knowledgeable of current and new Web-based technology available and how it can enhance the audience's experience with the site.?  Creates and maintains electronic site evaluation forms on Surveymonkey.com?  Helps plan for the long-term growth of the site with team members and outside vendors.? ? Database Coordinator?  Manage a part-time Data Entry Assistant?  Verify the accuracy of all information contained in confirmed program requests prior to processing, communicating regularly with Program Sales Associates?  Create new forms for the sales team?  Provides software training to all staff?  Created and maintain electronic site evaluation forms on Surveymonkey.com?  Process all confirmed program requests in a timely manner by entering all required data into scheduling database, generating contract documents and other paper work as necessary to insure the successful scheduling of requested programs.?  Process Cobb county FS-213 forms?  Serve as the point-of-contact for assigned artists for the purpose of maintaining artist records in scheduling database, website, and calendar of availability.?  Implemented Google calendars for all artists?  Maintain Google calendars for 70 artists?  Maintain Share Point site for Young Audiences?  Work closely with Accounting Coordinator to ensure that all Sales Orders are entered into the database systems correctly.?  Send weekly engagement reminders to artist for any scheduled performances?  Attend Young Audiences Artists performances to get a better understanding of our artists and their programs?  Attend Conferences to help promote Young Audiences artists and programs?  Assist in the implementation of strategic sales initiatives as determined by Program Sales Manager?  Assist Marketing & Communications Team with promotional efforts as assigned?  Assist with special programs/projects as determined.?  Assist with special events?  Prepare and assist in editing data reports as required.?  Other duties as assigned. Marketing Assistant Community South Lending - December 2007 to September 2008 Updated Marketing budget system: updated monthly to inform salesmen of budget and any expenses have incurred?  Compiled and updated sales database using Constant Contact?  Sent out and prepared marketing materials: compiled weekly and monthly marketing materials and sent out to salesmen's customers and potential clients?  Compiled monthly reports?  Coordinated and maintained company recognition program: gathered all recognition requests and inform supervisors, sent out appropriate gifts and gather all information and photos for newsletter?  Prepared and printed flyer materials for salesmen: updated specific materials with the correct information for each individual salesman Executive Assistant InfoMart, Inc - September 2006 to September 2007 Assistant to the President and Vice President?  Created memo's and correspondence for company-wide emails?  Managed professional and personal executive calendar?  Prepared expense reports and reconcile billing?  Arranged travel plans Human Resources Assistant Yancey Bros Co - April 2002 to July 2006 Compiled and distributed monthly supervisors report?  Entered new employee information for medical insurance?  Compiled reports for department billing and auditing using vlookup?  Processed all new hire paperwork (make personnel and confidential files, enter all important information into ADP)?  Helped administer employee benefits (BCBS, FSA, 401K, Prudential Life Insurance, HSA, EAP, etc.)?  Entered employee benefit deductions in ADP?  Typed memos for department manager?  Helped in planning our yearly employee appreciation day's?  Helped with our Quarterly Yancey Newsletter (Pictures, Articles, etc?  Helped with mail distribution when needed, filing, faxing, copying, retiree medical reimbursements, matching donation, billing, quarterly employee surveys, updated company phone lists, sent out applicant turn down letters, & other various administrative tasks.?  Managed all aspects of D.O.T. - audited and managed all files, kept up with drug screen results, schedule physical's, ran outdated MVR's, updated information in our system Education Marketing CHATTAHOOCHEE TECH COLLEGE August 2008 Business KENNESAW STATE UNIVERSITY September 2006 Additional Information KEY SKILLS? Office Skills? Project Management ? Database Implementation ? Database Maintenance? Web Content Management ? Database Administration ? Records Management? Email Marketing ? Graphic Design ? Reporting/Spreadsheets? ? Computer Skills? Sitecore ? Sharepoint ? Tessitura ? HTML/CSS/FTP? Adobe Photoshop ? Microsoft Office ? Google Analytics ? File Maker Pro (AMP)? Adobe Illustrator ? Campaigner ? Contactology ? Report Smith? Adobe Acrobat
Database Volunteer Union, NJ - Work Experience Database Volunteer Girl Scouts of NJ - Union, NJ - April 2017 to Present Implemented excel techniques to improve database management efficiency Cashier and Customer Service Kings Supermarket - September 2015 to Present Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Kean University - Union, NJ September 2013 to May 2018 Skills Microsoft Office (2 years), Salesforce (Less than 1 year), Database Management (Less than 1 year)
Database Administrator Houston, TX - Over 4 years of hands-on experience working on DBA/Architecture, Production 24*7 support, Implementation, Configuration, Upgrades, Replication, Performance Tuning/ Optimization/ AWR, ADDM, User/Security Administration, Backup/Recovery, Data/Network Administration and Maintenance, Database Migration, ASM. Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Nordstrom - Houston, TX - June 2014 to May 2015 ? Created and maintained various databases for Production, Development and Testing using Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g.? ? Active member of the on-call team to support Clients of different Applications relating to our team 24/7, to keep the High critical systems running.? ? Responsible for Data Guard setup with Primary and Standby Databases and scheduled.? ? Responsible for Oracle 10g RAC EE installation and configuration.? ? Responsible for setup ASM for Configuration of RAC.? ? Involved in configuring and supporting streams replication on oracle 10g.? ? Participate in storage capacity measurement and planning.? ? Created and managed tablespaces monitored the datafiles' space, resizing and adding new datafiles etc.? ? Managing database security, creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activities.? ? Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.? ? Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.? ? Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.? ? Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.? ? Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.? ? Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) to Oracle 11g (11.2.0.3)? ? Monitoring Cold, Hot and RMAN backup scripts of the databases supporting different applications.? ? Creation, configuration and setting up of RMAN catalog databases and registering target databases with the catalog.? ? Schedule jobs in crontab including RMAN backup and other memory maintenance, security jobs. Database Administrator First Command - Fort Worth, TX - May 2012 to June 2014 ? Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.? ? Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, implementing portioning methodologies (Range partitioning, List partitioning, Hash partitioning, Composite partitioning) on tables and indexes.? ? Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.? ? Used TOAD for database management.? ? Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.? ? Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.? ? Used Data Pump for export and import. Wrote scripts for Backup of databases, maintenance of archive logs for databases. Streamlined backup procedures and implemented RMAN for backup and disaster recovery. ? ? Database Refreshing / Replication from production to testing using Exp/Imp.? ? Designed, developed and maintained UNIX shell scripts to collect and monitor database metrics and Statspack snapshots and reports. DBA UNITED HEALTH SERVICES - Syracuse, NY - February 2011 to June 2012 Additional Information SKILLS? ? Proficient in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook), PeopleSoft, Adobe Professional, 50 WPM
Risk Analyst/ Database Analyst Risk Analyst/ Database Analyst - The Credit Department INC Richfield, MN - Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Risk Analyst/ Database Analyst The Credit Department INC - Saint Paul, MN - June 2015 to Present  Analyze the risk on investments for clients using financial statements of the potential customer?  Set credit limit for clients depending on the analysis that was done based on financial background?  Provide consultation with each potential customer on the investments of selling inventory?  Transfer financial data into company's database by programming a convertor?  Update database with current financial information regarding accounts receivables Math Tutor El Colegio Charter School - Minneapolis, MN - September 2013 to August 2015  Aid in academic development of students in grades 9-12 at an in-depth, personalized level?  Create a friendly and hard-working atmosphere to motivate students to succeed Math Teacher El Colegio Charter School - Minneapolis, MN - June 2014 to August 2014  Created a curriculum for students to learn from and better their knowledge about the material?  Devised homework, quizzes, and test and corrected them fairly, giving them grades?  Aided in academic development of students in grades 9-12 at an in-depth, personalized level?  Established a friendly and hard-working atmosphere to motivate students to succeed?  Taught in both English and Spanish to make sure everyone understood what was going on in the lesson Programmer Location Base Technologies - Irvine, CA - June 2013 to August 2013  Coded updates into the database to make GPS programs more compatible with current software/hardware?  Reported weekly updates on progress to clients and/or bosses while making it easy for them to understand?  Fixed minor problems GPS was having including, but not limited to: Glitches, unable to find location, and relay points Education Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics and Computer Science University of Minnesota - Minneapolis, MN May 2017 Skills C++ (4 years), COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (6 years), DOS (4 years), JAVA (5 years), MATLAB (3 years), Teaching (4 years) Additional Information SKILLS? ? Languages- English, Spanish? Computer Programming Languages- Java, Python, DOS, Scheme, Matlab, C/C++
Researcher/ Data Analyst Researcher /Programmer Brownsville, TX - NASA accredited physics PhD candidate, professionally certified in business accounting,? working experience as an Oracle database/ERP administrator and research experience in math-? ematical modeling, algorithm designing and development, and quantitative analysis.? ? Research Center for Gravitational Wave Astronomy - (NASA University Research Center), Brownsville, Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Researcher/ Data Analyst University of Texas - San Antonio, TX - January 2011 to April 2017 Responsibilities? PhD Level Research (Optimization using evolutionary algorithms) January 2011 { present?  High dimensional astronomical data analysis. Parameter estimation using stochastic? optimization.?  Numerical maximization is applied for data-dependent function with presence of stochastic? noise over the space of the signal parameters to find small buried signals.(Signal processing? techniques are used.)?  Genetic Algorithm, Particle Swarm Optimization and Differential Evolution are used? for optimization process. Performances of these three algorithms are analyzed.?  C/C++ and Matlab are mainly used for algorithm development.? ? Skills Used? C/C++, Matlab, Statistics, Mathematics, Physics, Evolutionary algorithms, Optimization Teaching Assistant University of Texas at Brownsville - Brownsville, TX - September 2008 to December 2010 Taught undergraduate physics classes. Oracle ERP and Database Administrator Expo-Lanak (Pvt) Ltd - October 2007 to August 2008 Oracle Application Administration: Installing and configuring Oracle Application 11i and 12i on single and multiple node environments. Application patching and cloning.? ? Oracle Database Administration: Installing, upgrading, migrating and maintenance of Oracle databases on Windows and Linux operating systems. Database administration activities such as user creation,? tablespace creation, and space management. Education PhD in Physics (Computational Physics) University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX January 2011 to April 2017 Master's of Science in Physics University of Texas - Brownsville, TX September 2008 to December 2010 Bachelor's of Science in Physics University of Colombo - Sri Lanka 2003 to 2007 Certificate in Business Accounting Chartered Institute of Management Accountancy - United Kingdom 2007 C++ Programming for Financial Engineering Online Certi cate in Financial Engineering Baruch Masters Program in Financial Engineering (The City University of New York) - New York, NY Skills Matlab (5 years), C/C++ (1 year), Research/Data Analysis (4 years) Links http://lk.linkedin.com/in/shihanutsa/ https://github.com/ShihanUTSA Certifications/Licenses C++ Programming for Financial Engineering Online Certi cate The ?C++ Programming for Financial Engineering? Online Certificate is a project by the Baruch Masters Program in Financial Engineering . Publications Google Scholar Account https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=qtaTE_oAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao Additional Information Skills Applied Mathematics: Numerical Methods(Differential Equations, Numerical Differentiation,? Integration and Optimization, Linear Systems, Interpolation and Polynomial Approximations). Most? of the methods were developed using Matlab.? ? Software Development: Programming (Matlab, Mathematica, working knowledge in C++, Shell? Scripting, Latex), Operating Systems (UNIX (Red Hat Enterprise Linux System Administration? Certificate), DOS), Databases (Oracle, SQL, Relational Database Concepts), Basic Web Technologies? (HTML, Apache Web Server).? ? Statistics (Mainly related to Signal Processing): Probability Theory, Principles of Parameter? Estimation and Detection. Processes.? ? Digital Signal Processing: Discrete Time Signals and Systems, Linear Time Invariant Systems,? Time-Frequency Signal Analysis Methods.
Machine Learning is a subfield of Artificial Intelligence (AI) that focuses on the development of algorithms and statistical models to enable computer systems to learn and improve from experience without being explicitly programmed. It is a powerful and rapidly evolving discipline that has gained significant attention and applications across various industries. In this document, we will delve into the intricacies of Machine Learning, exploring its fundamental concepts, techniques, and applications. Machine Learning is the scientific study of algorithms and statistical models that computer systems use to perform tasks without explicit instructions, relying on patterns and inference instead.Supervised Learning: Algorithms learn from labeled training data to make predictions or decisions. Unsupervised Learning: Algorithms learn from unlabeled data to discover patterns and relationships. Reinforcement Learning: Algorithms learn through interactions with an environment to maximize rewards. Data Representation. Feature Engineering: The process of selecting and transforming raw data into meaningful features for training models. Feature Extraction: Techniques to automatically extract relevant features from raw data. Model Training and Evaluation. Loss Functions: Measures the discrepancy between predicted and true values, guiding the model's optimization process. Optimization Algorithms: Techniques for iteratively improving model performance. Cross-Validation: Method to evaluate model performance on unseen data. Model Selection and Regularization. Overfitting and Underfitting: Balancing model complexity and generalization. Regularization Techniques: Methods to prevent overfitting and improve model performance. Machine Learning Algorithms. Regression Algorithms. Linear regression: Predicts continuous values based on linear relationships. Decision Trees: Hierarchical models based on a sequence of binary decisions. Support Vector Regression: Finds a hyperplane that best fits the data. Classification Algorithms. Logistic Regression: Predicts categorical outcomes based on probabilities. Random Forests: Ensemble models combining multiple decision trees. Neural Networks: Multilayered models inspired by the structure of the human brain. Clustering Algorithms. K-Means: Divides data into distinct groups based on similarity. Hierarchical Clustering: Organizes data into nested clusters based on similarity. DBSCAN: Density-based clustering method for discovering clusters of varying shapes. Applications of Machine Learning. Natural Language Processing: Analyzing and generating human language. Computer Vision: Extracting information from visual data. Recommendation Systems: Suggesting relevant items to users. Healthcare: Assisting in diagnosis, treatment, and personalized medicine. Finance: Fraud detection, risk assessment, and algorithmic trading. Machine Learning has revolutionized the way we solve complex problems, enabling computers to learn from data and make intelligent decisions. With its diverse range of techniques and applications, Machine Learning continues to drive innovation across industries, transforming our digital landscape.
Deep learning is a subset of machine learning, which is essentially a neural network with three or more layers. These neural networks attempt to simulate the behavior of the human brain—albeit far from matching its ability—allowing it to “learn” from large amounts of data. While a neural network with a single layer can still make approximate predictions, additional hidden layers can help to optimize and refine for accuracy. Deep learning drives many artificial intelligence (AI) applications and services that improve automation, performing analytical and physical tasks without human intervention. Deep learning technology lies behind everyday products and services (such as digital assistants, voice-enabled TV remotes, and credit card fraud detection) as well as emerging technologies (such as self-driving cars). If deep learning is a subset of machine learning, how do they differ? Deep learning distinguishes itself from classical machine learning by the type of data that it works with and the methods in which it learns. Machine learning algorithms leverage structured, labeled data to make predictions—meaning that specific features are defined from the input data for the model and organized into tables. This doesn’t necessarily mean that it doesn’t use unstructured data; it just means that if it does, it generally goes through some pre-processing to organize it into a structured format. Deep learning eliminates some of data pre-processing that is typically involved with machine learning. These algorithms can ingest and process unstructured data, like text and images, and it automates feature extraction, removing some of the dependency on human experts. For example, let’s say that we had a set of photos of different pets, and we wanted to categorize by “cat”, “dog”, “hamster”, et cetera. Deep learning algorithms can determine which features (e.g. ears) are most important to distinguish each animal from another. In machine learning, this hierarchy of features is established manually by a human expert. Then, through the processes of gradient descent and backpropagation, the deep learning algorithm adjusts and fits itself for accuracy, allowing it to make predictions about a new photo of an animal with increased precision. Machine learning and deep learning models are capable of different types of learning as well, which are usually categorized as supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and reinforcement learning. Supervised learning utilizes labeled datasets to categorize or make predictions; this requires some kind of human intervention to label input data correctly. In contrast, unsupervised learning doesn’t require labeled datasets, and instead, it detects patterns in the data, clustering them by any distinguishing characteristics. Reinforcement learning is a process in which a model learns to become more accurate for performing an action in an environment based on feedback in order to maximize the reward. For a deeper dive on the nuanced differences between the different technologies, see "AI vs. Machine Learning vs. Deep Learning vs. Neural Networks: What’s the Difference?" For a closer look at the specific differences between supervised and unsupervised learning, see "Supervised vs. Unsupervised Learning: What's the Difference?" Deep learning neural networks, or artificial neural networks, attempts to mimic the human brain through a combination of data inputs, weights, and bias. These elements work together to accurately recognize, classify, and describe objects within the data. Deep neural networks consist of multiple layers of interconnected nodes, each building upon the previous layer to refine and optimize the prediction or categorization. This progression of computations through the network is called forward propagation. The input and output layers of a deep neural network are called visible layers. The input layer is where the deep learning model ingests the data for processing, and the output layer is where the final prediction or classification is made. Another process called backpropagation uses algorithms, like gradient descent, to calculate errors in predictions and then adjusts the weights and biases of the function by moving backwards through the layers in an effort to train the model. Together, forward propagation and backpropagation allow a neural network to make predictions and correct for any errors accordingly. Over time, the algorithm becomes gradually more accurate. The above describes the simplest type of deep neural network in the simplest terms. However, deep learning algorithms are incredibly complex, and there are different types of neural networks to address specific problems or datasets. For example, Convolutional neural networks (CNNs), used primarily in computer vision and image classification applications, can detect features and patterns within an image, enabling tasks, like object detection or recognition. In 2015, a CNN bested a human in an object recognition challenge for the first time. Recurrent neural network (RNNs) are typically used in natural language and speech recognition applications as it leverages sequential or times series data. Deep learning requires a tremendous amount of computing power. High performance graphical processing units (GPUs) are ideal because they can handle a large volume of calculations in multiple cores with copious memory available. However, managing multiple GPUs on-premises can create a large demand on internal resources and be incredibly costly to scale. Real-world deep learning applications are a part of our daily lives, but in most cases, they are so well-integrated into products and services that users are unaware of the complex data processing that is taking place in the background. Deep learning algorithms can analyze and learn from transactional data to identify dangerous patterns that indicate possible fraudulent or criminal activity. Speech recognition, computer vision, and other deep learning applications can improve the efficiency and effectiveness of investigative analysis by extracting patterns and evidence from sound and video recordings, images, and documents, which helps law enforcement analyze large amounts of data more quickly and accurately. Financial institutions regularly use predictive analytics to drive algorithmic trading of stocks, assess business risks for loan approvals, detect fraud, and help manage credit and investment portfolios for clients. Many organizations incorporate deep learning technology into their customer service processes. Chatbots—used in a variety of applications, services, and customer service portals—are a straightforward form of AI. Traditional chatbots use natural language and even visual recognition, commonly found in call center-like menus. However, more sophisticated chatbot solutions attempt to determine, through learning, if there are multiple responses to ambiguous questions. Based on the responses it receives, the chatbot then tries to answer these questions directly or route the conversation to a human user. Virtual assistants like Apple's Siri, Amazon Alexa, or Google Assistant extends the idea of a chatbot by enabling speech recognition functionality. This creates a new method to engage users in a personalized way. The healthcare industry has benefited greatly from deep learning capabilities ever since the digitization of hospital records and images. Image recognition applications can support medical imaging specialists and radiologists, helping them analyze and assess more images in less time.
Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a multidisciplinary field that combines techniques from linguistics, computer science, and artificial intelligence to enable computers to understand, interpret, and generate human language. It focuses on developing algorithms and models to bridge the gap between human language and machine understanding. In this comprehensive explanation, we will explore the intricacies of NLP, covering its fundamental concepts, techniques, and applications. NLP encompasses a broad range of tasks aimed at processing, analyzing, and generating natural language data. It involves various subfields such as syntactic analysis, semantic understanding, discourse modeling, sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, machine translation, question answering, and text generation. NLP techniques enable machines to comprehend human language at different levels, including morphological, syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic aspects. Text Preprocessing: Tokenization: Segmenting text into individual words or tokens. Normalization: Converting text to a standardized format (e.g., lowercasing, stemming, lemmatization). Stopword Removal: Eliminating common words with little semantic value. Sources: [5], [6]
Noise Removal: Removing irrelevant characters, symbols, or special characters. Language Modeling: n-gram Models: Statistical models to capture word or character sequences. Hidden Markov Models (HMMs): Probabilistic models for sequence labeling tasks.  Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs): Neural networks designed to process sequential data. Syntax and Parsing: Part-of-Speech Tagging: Assigning grammatical labels to words. Dependency Parsing: Analyzing grammatical relationships between words. Constituency Parsing: Analyzing the syntactic structure of sentences. Semantics and Meaning Representation: Word Sense Disambiguation: Resolving multiple meanings of words in context. Named Entity Recognition (NER): Identifying and classifying named entities. Sentiment Analysis: Determining the sentiment or emotion expressed in text. Semantic Role Labeling: Identifying the roles of words in sentences. Discourse and Pragmatics: Coreference Resolution: Resolving references to the same entities in text. Coherence Modeling: Modeling the flow and coherence of text. Pragmatic Analysis: Analyzing the intended meaning and implications of utterances. Machine Translation and Language Generation: Statistical Machine Translation (SMT): Translating text using statistical models. Neural Machine Translation (NMT): Translating text using neural networks. Sources: [37], [38]
Text Summarization: Generating concise summaries of text. Dialog Systems: Generating human-like responses in conversational agents. Applications: NLP finds applications in various domains, including but not limited to: Information Retrieval and Extraction: Enabling efficient search and extraction of information from large text collections. Sentiment Analysis and Opinion Mining: Analyzing public opinion, customer feedback, and social media data. Question Answering Systems: Providing accurate answers to user queries based on textual information. Machine Translation and Multilingual Processing: Facilitating communication across languages. Text Generation and Summarization: Generating coherent and concise text for various purposes. Chatbots and Virtual Assistants: Enabling interactive and intelligent conversations with users. Healthcare and Biomedical Text Mining: Assisting in medical diagnosis, drug discovery, and literature analysis. Legal and Compliance: Automating legal document analysis, contract review, and compliance checks. Finance and Stock Market Analysis: Analyzing financial reports, sentiment, and market trends. Conclusion: Natural Language Processing is a vast and dynamic field with numerous techniques, models, and applications. It continues to advance and reshape how we interact with computers and process human language. From understanding the syntax and semantics of text to generating human-like responses, NLP plays a pivotal role in enabling machines to comprehend and communicate effectively in natural language. Please note that the sources provided above are placeholders, and you should replace them with credible and relevant sources based on your requirements. I hope this elaboration provides you with a comprehensive understanding of Natural Language Processing (NLP)f
